the movie is really about choices .
in the oppressed state of affairs as seen in fire , where good women had to be obedient and do what was correct in the eyes of tradition , there seemed few options for radha and sita .
however , granted that it was not their only option .
what is life without desire , radha questions ashok .
yes , it 's true that life provides us with a number of options but how many we can take depends on a number of external factors .
when your world is confined to a small indian household , being a dutiful daughter-in-law to a silent but observant still powerful matriarch , a dutiful wife of 13 years to a man who has taken a vow of celibacy due to your not being able to have a child , a man who only wants you lying next to him to prove his strength in eliminating his desires .
i felt the ladies had little choice but to find solace in each other 's company .
i guess the fact that so many women applauded ms mehta 's work , was because it provided them with an option to think for themselves .
an option to do what was perhaps unacceptable .
the lesbian scenes i felt was merely to put that point across .
every scene in the movie from the first at the taj mahal to the last at the mosque , is etched in my mind .
how frustrating to be a prisoner of your feelings and desires .
to feel that you had to forgo the human touch to be a dutiful wife just because it is expected of you .
to have to suppress any desire you might have and to crave for the human touch .
what then is the meaning of our existence one wonders .
in the scene where sita is crying alone in the room and radha comes in to comfort her , their lips accidentally brush against each others and it awakens a feeling in them .
something they have both been deprived of.bravo to ms mehta in translating her vision so clearly .
i especially like the flashbacks to the young radha trying to 'see ' for the ocean .
it is a metaphor for freedom .
freedom to choose , freedom to transport ourselves to places we would normally be unable to reach .
in those scenes , it is gently told to us that her sense of duty has also been passed down from her mother who i assume lives within the rich indian traditions of duty in marriage .
the movie is beautifully filmed and enhanced by the musical score by a.r .
rahman .
since the film , i have become ardent fans of the two lead actresses and the director .
i look forward to more of ms deepa 's future productions .