'water ' ( 2005 ) , the final part of toronto-based indian film-director deepa mehta 's elemental trilogy has been finally completed , almost ten years after the release of the very first controversial element , 'fire ' ( 1996 ) , which was followed with a slightly lesser controversial sequel '1947 : earth ' ( 1998 ) .
mehta made her directorial debut with a 24-minute canadian short film 'at 99 : a portrait of louise tandy murch ' ( 1975 ) , but it was her canadian feature film about the life of indians living in canada that brought her fame back in east , her country by birthright , 'sam & me ' ( 1991 ) .
recognition internationally came in the way of 'camilla ' ( 1994 ) , starring bridget fonda , along with the actress who in 1990 won an oscar in best actress in a leading role category at the age of 80 , paving the way for middle-aged actresses to still have hope , for her portrayal of a stubborn old jewish woman in 'driving miss daisy ' ( 1989 ) , late jessica tandy .
'camilla ' dealt with a friendship between two women from two other ends of the human lifespan , a may/december friendship .
'camilla ' was tandy 's last picture ; she died the very same year.international fame followed deepa mehta in 1996 with the release of the controversial 'fire ' , which spread with rage among the false patriotic consciousness existing indian extremist .
having already explored friendship between two women in 'camilla ' , in 'fire ' mehta went a step further to portray a more intimate relationship between two lonely neglected women .
set in modern day india , the suburbs of the capital city of new delhi , it shows two brothers and their wives , the elder brother ( kulbhushan kharbanda ) having joined a weird hindu sect leads a life of celibacy , faithful to his guru of sexless existence .
the younger brother ( javed jaffrey ) is having an extra marital affair with a chinese woman ( alice poon ) .
thus , both the wives , shabana azmi playing the elder brothers wife and nandita das the younger wife , find themselves neglected in their own way .
one forced to lead a celibate life , thanks to her husband 's eccentricities , and the other whose only interaction with her husband is through sex , and nothing more .
living in a world of in-laws and being the only two outsiders in the family , having nobody else to confide in , the two women fall in the arms of each other .
thus comes the issue of lesbianism .
if there were an outside man 's shoulder to cry on , there most probably would have been chance for them to fall into the arms of a man , but having no one else to confide in , their need for each others support is quite obvious .
it does not necessarily state that all neglected women would end up taking lesbianism , it just happened to exist with regard to the two women in this context .
all in all , the movie is excellent , and delves far deeper than just two women rolling in bed .
the key focus is n't lesbianism in the movie , but the plight of modern day neglected indian wives , even in the capital city , the two female characters just happen to have a sexual relationship .
two years later , deepa mehta 's second installment was the element of mother earth , released in india by the name of '1947 : earth ' , yet another excellent movie by a great director , this time in the hindi language , unlike 'fire ' , which was made in the english language .
now deepa mehta has managed to complete the trilogy , despite a lot of problems , having released the final installment recently , 'water ' .
no doubt it would be just as great as the other two .