i finally watched the third film in mehta 's trilogy : `` fire '' .
to begin , i 'd say that `` water '' was the unquestionable masterpiece , on all levels .
fire comes next with earth close behind in order of quality .
fire : there is so much going on in this film that i 'll need a few more viewings to drink it all in .
the writing is superb , the script creating friction that starts the entire process of `` heat '' from the beginning until the end when it really does erupt into a fire , the conflicts moving into complete rupture of relationships .
mehta is one brave lady : she sees with a clear eye much that is jaundiced , false and repressive about the great society from which she came from .
india is rapidly changing these days but much of this is economic change .
that she met with such ferocious opposition to the making of `` water '' after having had the script cleared , shows that there are still many taboo subjects which indian people more than less can not look squarely in the face , can not examine or discuss them .
worse , if someone like mehta has the courage to hold up a mirror to these issues , she faces death threats .
so , as much as india thinks of itself as a pluralistic , tolerant society , the facts are not always so .
whereas `` earth '' was merely a historical setting of the carnage of the civil war after indian independence , fire and water are pointing at personal , social and religious issues , which as i say are considered so strongly ( in a negative sense ) that an open artistic dialog is still many years away .
as i write this `` water '' is scheduled to actually be shown in india later this year .
i 'll believe it when i see it .
fire confronts a similar sexual and emotional conundrum that i saw in `` a price above rubies '' .
whether it 's arranged marriages ( which it used to be like among jews about 150 years ago , or like it is among many modern indians ) , they have the risk of having a bad match forced upon both men and women ; or , just plain loveless marriages ... .. however , this is not the real issue .
mehta is clearly impatient with the totally rigid religious attitudes that either keep widows in misery ( water ) or else keep women enslaved to loveless marriages ( fire ) .
i am no expert regarding either the secular or hindu laws concerning divorce .
the film seems to imply that the stigma ( of divorce ) is almost as bad as the sad marriage .
in any case mehta 's film is a very moving , powerful attempt at sexual discourse that holds modern indian relationships up to probing scrutiny .
that all three of these films have made themselves felt in india as an unwarranted attack on their culture sounds to me like the predictable clamor of a repressive mindset .
mehta is forcing the issues to be looked at no matter how much flack .
i admire her work and can not highly recommend her films enough .
superb , disturbing , provocative , taboo shattering .