i was looking forward to the guardian , but when i walked into the theater i was n't really in the mood for it at that particular time .
it 's kind of like the olive garden - i like it , but i have to be in the right mindset to thoroughly enjoy it.i 'm not exactly sure what was dampening my spirit .
the trailers looked good , but the water theme was giving me bad flashbacks to the last kevin costner movie that dealt with the subject - waterworld .
plus , despite the promise ashton kutcher showed in the butterfly effect , i 'm still not completely sold on him .
something about the guy just annoys me .
probably has to do with his simian features.it took approximately two minutes for my fears to subside and for my hesitancies to slip away .
the movie immediately throws us into the midst of a tense rescue mission , and i was gripped tighter than kenny rogers ' orange face lift .
my concerns briefly bristled at kutcher 's initial appearance due to the fact that too much effort was made to paint him as ridiculously cool and rebellious .
sunglasses , a tough guy toothpick in his mouth , and sportin ' a smirk that 'd make george clooney proud ?
yeah , we get it .
i was totally ready to hate him.but then he had to go and deliver a fairly strong performance and force me to soften my jabs .
darn you , ape man !
efficiently mixing tense , exciting rescue scenes , drama , humor , and solid acting , the guardian is easily a film that i dare say the majority of audiences will enjoy .
you can quibble about its clichés , predictability , and rare moments of overcooked sappiness , but none of that takes away from the entertainment value.i had a bad feeling that the pace would slow too much when costner started training the young guys , but on the contrary , the training sessions just might be the most interesting aspect of the film .
coast guard rescue swimmers are heroes whose stories have never really been portrayed on the big screen , so i feel the inside look at what they go through and how tough it is to make it is very informative and a great way to introduce audiences to this under-appreciated group.do you have what it takes to be a rescue swimmer ?
just think about it -you get to go on dangerous missions in cold , dark , rough water , and then you must fight disorientation , exhaustion , hypothermia , and a lack of oxygen all while trying to help stranded , panicked people who are depending on you for their survival .
and if all that is n't bad enough , sometimes you ca n't save everybody so you have to make the tough decision of who lives and who dies.man , who wants all that responsibility ?
not me !
i had no idea what it was really like for these guys , and who would have thought i 'd have an ashton kutcher/kevin costner movie to thank for the education ?
not only does the guardian do a great job of paying tribute to this rare breed of hero , but lucky for us it also does a good job of entertaining its paying customers.the gist moviegoers wanting an inside look at what it 's like to embark on a daring rescue mission in the middle of the ocean might want to give the guardian a chance .
i saw it for free , but had i paid i would 've felt i had gotten my money 's worth .