now i do understand that this film was not meant as an indictment against all indians but it is an amazing film because it dares to investigate the hypocrisy that some indians have concerning their women and sexuality .
i have known for some time that sexism is very common in this society ( with women being murdered because the husband 's family does n't want them any more after his death or because she had a small dowry as well as the frequent killing of female fetuses because they are seen as a curse instead of a blessing ) .
i also realize that some from this culture will be greatly offended by the film , but the bottom line is that there is some truth to the subject matter -- even if the film was so strongly attacked when it debuted in india a decade ago .
as a result of the extreme misogyny in the movie , most western audience members will be shocked or at least be emotionally pulled into the plight of the ladies in this film.although i am a male , am not rabidly feminist and i am straight , the film had a strong positive impact on me and it is not an agenda film that can only be enjoyed by lesbians and `` man haters '' .
in fact , i do n't think the film is promoting hatred of men or homosexuality but instead gives a credibly argument how in the case of these two ladies it was the only reasonable alternative due to their wicked husbands .
yes , i use the word `` wicked '' and mean it , as both husbands living in this large household are intensely selfish and have no regard for their spouses ' sexuality .
in many traditional societies this is indeed the case and women are doomed to an empty emotional existence.one husband married a vivacious young woman , sita , out of family obligation .
this arranged marriage is uncomfortable for them both but in the beginning sita makes an attempt to connect with her sullen husband .
however , he sees himself as a victim and could have cared less about sita -- and he continues to have an affair with a liberal-minded chinese lady .
to make matters worse , he did nothing to hide the affair and made no apologies .
in their dead marriage , sex was purely meant to produce children and there was no way sita could have any of her sexual or emotional needs met .
and unfortunately , he could have cared less.another husband was married to a lady who was infertile ( radha ) .
oddly , after initially trying to have children , they have gone the next 13 years without any sexual contact whatsoever !
it 's because this man has decided to become an ascetic ( i.e.
, in hinduism , a person who gives up the pleasures of the world to gain inner enlightenment ) .
now his wanting to do this was all well and good if he was not already married and had obligations for his wife .
however , being married , this was an incredibly selfish act and like his brother , he assumed his wife had no sexual feelings nor did he seem to care .
the closest he would allow her to him sexually was to sleep next to him -- as having her next to him helped teach himself to `` overcome the desires of the flesh '' .
this must have brought nothing but frustration to her.so , you 've got two neglected and normal women living in the same household who long for emotional connection as well as an outlet for their sexual needs .
eventually , these needs bring these sister-in-laws together -- at first , just emotionally but later sexually as well .
the movie was brilliant how it got me to look at and understand how in some cases homosexuality is inevitable and even healthy compared to a life of emotional desolation.late in the film , when the intensity of their sexual relationship is discovered , it leads to a not totally unexpected reaction from radha 's `` enlightened '' husband -- a man who seeks religious insight and peace yet is so wrapped up in himself that true insight and growth is impossible.this is a very challenging and adult film .
while there is very little nudity , the subject matter is very adult and this is not a film to show your kids .
very disturbing indeed is one minor character who masturbates in front of an old paralyzed lady -- as i said , this is not a film to let your kids watch .
however , for a mature audience , this is an excellent and highly erotic film that will get you to think.the film features good acting , complex characters , excellent writing , lovely mood music and a slow pace that might annoy some , but which i found rewarding .
the only serious negative i can not blame on the movie itself but on the idiots who released this on videotape .
this is because although the movie is in english , the accents are quite strong at times and it 's not always easy to understand what 's being said .
but , and this is the worst part , there are no closed or open captions -- including them is a must for western audiences .
if you do watch this film , see if you can find it on dvd or hopefully a newer release on video will have captioning -- mine sure didn't.by the way , director deepa mehta ( a popular female director ) has made several other wonderful films such as earth and bollywood/hollywood .
a consistent theme in her films is the conflict between traditional indian culture and expectations and westernism -- with a strong emphasis on female characters .
not surprisingly , this west-thinking lady makes her home in canada and is divorced -- a truly unusual woman to say the least .
for a similar film that explores traditional culture meets western culture , try another canadian gem , eat drink man woman .