this was a great film in every sense of the word .
it tackles the subject of tribadism in a society that is quite intolerant of any deviations from the norm .
it criticises a great many indian customs that many find oppressive -- such as the arranging of marriages by others , the importance of status and face , religious hypocrisy , sexism , the valuation of women in terms of their baby-making capacity , the binding concepts of duty and so on .
at the heart of the film is a touching love story that goes beyond such limitations of the society which the two protagonists find themselves .
the film is well-acted and genuine , completely believable from beginning to end , unlike most bollywood flicks .
the main faults of the film as i saw it was first , that the two lovers seem drawn to one another not necessarily by a natural affinity for each other as much as the fact that they are stuck in dead-end marriages with no passion and no rewards .
this may play a part in the sexual awakening of the characters , but most people stuck in the same situation will not `` turn homosexual '' .
it seems clear from the beginning of the film that the two characters are quite heterosexual -- when radha does her scene at the end of the movie with aashok , she makes it quite clear that `` without desire she was dead '' , and the implication was that if he had desired so , he could have fulfilled her quite completely , and also when sita seemed very disappointed when her husband seemed to not like her .
such situations do not turn people into homosexuals -- they may seek comfort in others in the same position , but inthe film it is not at all made clear that they are lesbians from the beginning -- quite the opposite .
some people are bisexual , it is true , but most tend to be either hetero- or homosexual .
in the case of the ladies in the film , both had insensitive jerks for husbands .
.
.
if this had not been the case , would they have naturally found the need to express their desire in a relationship that they may have otherwise not have considered ?
the film ignores this .
the other fault is the naming of the characters .
.
.
the names sita and radha seem contrived deliberately to shock and outrage ( imagine a film in america depicting a gay relationship between a man named `` jesus '' and another named `` paul '' ! )
by using names associated with various hindoo scriptures .
the film is strong enough to stand on its own and needs no such devices in my opinion .
at any rate , the faults do not take much away from the power of the movie .
it is indeed a very touching and powerful story -- the images and characters will stay with you a long time after you leave the theatre .