this is my first deepa mehta film .
i saw the film on tv in its hindi version with its `` sita '' character presented as nita .
i also note that it is radha who underwent the allegorical trial by fire in the film and not nita/sita .
yet what i loved about the film was its screenplay by ms mehta , not her direction .
the characters , big and small , were well-developed and seemed quixotic towards the end -- somewhat like the end of mazursky 's `` an unmarried woman . ''
they are brave women surrounded by cardboard men .
and one cardboard man ( ashok ) seems to come alive in the last shot we see of him -- -carrying his invalid mother biji .
he seems to finally take on a future responsibility beyond celibacy and adherance to religion .
ms mehta seems to fumble as a director ( however , compared to most indian mainstream cinema she would seem to be brilliant ) as she can not use her script to go beyond the microscopic joint family she is presenting except presenting a glimpse of the chinese micro-minority in the social milieu of india .
she even dedicates the film to her mother and daughter ( not her father ! )
yet her radha reminesces of halcyon days with both her parents in a mustard field .
compare her to mrinal sen , adoor gopalakrishnan , muzaffar ali and she is dwarfed by these giants -- given her competent canadian production team and financial resources !
mehta 's film of two bisexual ladies in an indian middle-class household may be sacrilege to some , but merely captures the atrophy of middle-class homes that does not seem to aspire for something better than its immediate survival in a limited social space .
kannada , malayalam , and bengali films have touched parallel themes in india but did not have the publicity that surrounded this film and therefore have not been seen by a wide segment of knowledgeable cinemagoers.ms das , ms azmi , mr jafri and mr kharbanda are credible but not outstanding .
ms azmi is a talented actress who gave superb performances under good directors ( mrinal sen 's `` khandar '' , gautam ghose 's `` paar '' , benegal 's `` ankur '' ) a brilliance notably absent in this film .
ms das sparkled due to her screen presence rather than her acting capability .
all in all , the film 's strength remains in the structure of the screenplay which is above average in terms of international cinema .
i am sure ms mehta can hone her writing talents in her future screenplays .