contains `` spoiler '' information .
watch this director 's other film , `` earth '' , at some point .
it 's a better film , but this one is n't bad just different.a rare feminist point of view from an indian filmmaker .
tradition , rituals , duty , secrets , and the portrayal of strict sex roles make this an engaging and culturally dynamic film viewing experience .
all of the married characters lack the `` fire '' of the marriage bed with their respective spouses .
one husband is celibate and commits a form of spiritual `` adultery '' by giving all of his love , honor , time and respect to his religious swami ( guru ) .
his wife is lonely and yearns for intimacy and tenderness which she eventually finds with her closeted lesbian sister-in-law who comes to live in their house with her unfaithful husband .
this unfaithful husband is openly in love with his chinese mistress but was forced into marriage with a ( unbeknownest to him ) lesbian .
they only have sex once when his closet lesbian wife loses her virginity.a servant lives in the house and he eventually reveals the secret that the two women are lovers .
another significant character is the elderly matriarch who is unable to speak or care for herself due to a stroke .
however , she uses a ringing bell to communicate her needs as well as her displeasure with the family members .
she lets them know through her bell or by pounding her fist that she knows exacly what 's going on in the house and how much she disapproves.in the end , the truth about everybody comes out and the two female lovers end up running away together .
but , not before there is an emotional scene between the swami-addicted husband and his formerly straight wife .
her sari catches on fire and at first we think she is going to die .
however , we see the two women united in the very last scene of the movie.the writer/director of this film challenges her culture 's traditions , but she shows us individual human beings who are trapped by their culture and gender .
we come to really care about the characters and we do n't see them as stereotypes .
each on surprises us with their humanity , vulgarity , tenderness , anger , and spirit .