( this has been edited for space ) chan-wook park 's new film is a complex film that is not easy to classify .
nominally a horror movie , the central character is a vampire , the film actually has elements of comedy , theology , melodrama , cultural invasion ( and its analog of viral invasion of a body ) , romance and few other things as well .
it 's a film that has almost too much on its mind .
the film takes its own matters and mixes them with classic european literature , in this case emile zola 's `` thérèse raquin '' .
it 's an odd mix that does n't always gel , but none the less has an incredible power .
here it is almost 24 hours since i saw the film at lincoln center ( with a post film discussion by the director ) and i find my cage is increasingly rattled .
its not so much what happens is bothersome , its more that its wide reaching story and its themes ring a lot of bells in retrospect.the plot of the film has a will loved priest deciding that the best way to help mankind is to volunteer for a medical experiment to find a cure for a terrible disease .
infected with the disease he eventually succumbs and dies , but because of a transfusion of vampiric blood ( its not explained ) he actually survives .
hailed as a miracle worker the priest returns to the hospital where he had been ministering to the sick .
unfortunately all is not well .
the priest finds that he needs blood to survive .
he also finds that he has all of the typical problems of a vampire , and its no not possible for him to go out during the day .
things become even more complicated when he becomes reacquainted with a childhood friend and his family .
the priest , some of his animal passions awakened becomes taken with the wife of his friend .
from there it all goes sideways.an ever changing film , this is a story that spins through a variety of genres as it tells the very human story of a man who finds that his life has been radically altered by a chance event and finds that he is no longer who he thought he was .
it 's a film that you have to stay with to the end because the film is forever evolving into something else .
its also a film that has a great deal on its mind and the themes its playing with are constantly being explored in a variety of waysthe film has enough going on that one could , and people probably will , write books discussing the film.the two of the strongest parts of the film are its vampiric elements and its romance the vampire part of the tale is brilliant .
there is something about how it lays out the ground rules and the nature of the `` affliction '' that makes such perfect sense that it kind of pushes the old vampire ideas aside .
sitting in the theater last night i found myself amazed at how impressed how well it worked .
i think the fact that it played more or less straight is what is so earth shaking .
here is a vampire who just wants to have a normal life .
it 's contrasted with what happens later , it makes clear that living an existence of hunting humans really is n't going to work .
its not the dark world of twilight or lost boys , rather its something else .
i personally think that the film changes the playing field from a hip cool idea or dream into something more real and tangible .
( the sequence where the powers kick in is just way cool ) the romance is also wonderfully handled .
sure the sex scenes are steamy and well done , but it 's the other stuff , the looks , the talk , the gestures outside of the sex that makes this special .
i love the looks , the quiet stares as the forbidden couple look at each other hungering for each other and unable to act , the disappointment and heartbreak of betrayal both real and suspected , and the mad passion of possible consummation .
this is one of the great screen romances of all time .
it perfectly captures the feeling and emotion of deep passionate love ( and lust ) .
if you 've ever loved deeply i 'm guessing you 'll find some part of your hear on screen , i know i did .
the statement `` i just wanted to spend eternity with you '' has a sad poignancy to it .
it 's both a statement of what was the intention as well as the depth of emotion .
the tragic romance will break your heart .
i wo n't lie to you and say that the film is perfect and great .
its not , as good as the pieces are and almost all of them are great ( especially the actors who i have unjustly failed to hail as amazing ) the whole does n't always come together .
the various genres , thematic elements and tones occasionally grate against each other .
frequently i was wondering where the film was going .
i hung in there even though the film seemed to be wandering about aimlessly.i liked the film a great deal .
i loved the pieces more than the film as a whole .
its been pinging around in my head since i saw it , and i 'm guessing that it will do so for several days more .
like or love is irrelevant since this is a film that really should be seen since it has so much going on that it will provide you with enough material to think and talk about for days afterward .
one of the meatiest and most filling films of the year .