the definition of a vampire is an inhumane corpse supposed to leave its grave at night to drink the blood of the living .
bakjwi nearly nails this concept on the head minus the cliché of pointy fangs and neck biting .
being an r rated movie , i knew this was actually going to pertain to vampires actually being vampires .
which means that the characters in the movie are going to do what vampires actually do without restraint and rightfully lack any glamorous moments in comparison to twilight .
having viewed chan-wook park 's preceding oldboy , i had very high expectations of bakjwi.i anticipated some awkward plot sequences with our anti-hero , known as priest sang-hyeon , and was very impressed by his performance as a holy-man who is forced into this quandary of being humane and obeying his thirst as a vampire .
( spoiler ) after the initial premise of him surviving the defective blood transfusion , he starts to crave blood and discovers his super strength and his flying ability .
the screen shots do his transition phase without overbearing on exposition .
he starts drinking the blood of the dying and those who wish to be euthanized for moral reasons .
the oft tragic and dysfunctional love affair the priest has with the manipulative tae-joo is very riveting as they are played by the host 's kanh-ho song and actress ok-vin kim .
the special effects are properly placed in the backdrop and while it does n't offer anything new in the ways of stunts and cgi , it did n't impose itself into the plot driven and character developed premise .
the story and the pivotal plot points are very perverse and grotesque yet very original in its own korean style .
there are n't many negatives i can say about bakjwi .
sometimes i ask myself if the priests transition phase could have showed more of the priest having an emotional crisis with his transformation , but then again this would have made the movie 3 hours long .
the movie was long to begin with .
on the same token , vampires really do n't have much in the way of expressing emotions to begin with .
as mentioned before , this movie is very tragic , so do n't expect anything hopeful while watching this .
overall , bakjwi is delightfully dark , morbid and original .
i strongly recommend this movie for serious viewers who are past the teenage phase of twilight .
this is definitely the korean answer to the swedish let the right one in , which is also a good movie .