i 'm the first to recognize that chan-wook park 's thirst is exceptionally well made , but spending over two hours with tae-joo ( ok-vin kim ) is enough for anyone to tolerate for such a length of time .
sang-hyeon ( kang-ho song ) is a priest desiring to volunteer for experimental studies on those willing to subject themselves to rigorous injections concerning a specific virus which kills infectiously .
instead of legitimately dying , hyeon becomes a vampire , always yearning for the sustenance blood gives for him to fight off an infectious disease which returns causing the symptoms which flat-lined him to begin with ( ..bumps/sores , and the body vomits blood ) .
sunlight , as is known in the vampire genre , causes torturous death if exposed to hyeon for a length of time .
hyeon falls in lust with tae-joo , the wife of sickly childhood friend kang-woo ( ha-kyun shin ) .
tae-joo was taken in by mrs. ra ( hae-sook kim ) , regarded as a puppy , and practically used as a domestic animal to be ordered around .
ta-joo is miserable in this situation and begins a torrid affair she instigates with hyeon , soon manipulating him into perhaps killing kang-woo by having him believe she 's a victim of abuse .
renouncing his priesthood , hyeon dives headlong into the relationship with tae-joo , soon a willing participant in killing kang-woo .
this incident , which tae-woo contributed to ( ..using a boat , in the middle of a lake , both proceeded to burying him underwater , tae-woo keeping him kang-woo from re-surfacing as he attempted to re-enter ) will haunt both , as circumstances arise with kang-woo `` missing '' ( hyeon got rid of him , where police would not find his corpse ) .
soon mrs ra suffers a stroke ( ..though , one finger and the ability to blink her eyes contribute mightily as the story progresses , showing that she more aware than they are led to believe ) , and hyeon gives tae-joo a special birthday gift..vampirism .
in doing so , hyeon has created a monster .
tae-joo admits ( ..though a slip of the tongue ) that , in fact , kang-woo never hurt her , and as she thirsts for blood it is soon realized that killing for a supply does n't bother her morally or psychologically .
tae-joo becomes such a hand full , hyeon has to take desperate measures if he is to stop such a menace to society , himself included.i will say that thirst is one of the best horror films i 've seen regarding 2009. it 's a methodical approach park takes and we are led down a dark road with hyeon and tae-joo , as they commit terrible deeds with nothing positive ever to come from their unholy union .
innocent people die because of hyeon 's love ( ..what once was lust shifts into an obsessive love by the end ) for tae-joo , and it will cease to end if he does n't make a painful choice .
we see inside their heads , their souls , and it is n't always pretty .
2 hours with them can be quite exhausting..but , credit to the director for pulling no punches in regards to devious behavior and how the powers of vampirism can be given to the wrong people .
hyeon , seen as a rather pleasant soul at the opening , accepts `` hell '' for tae-joo so one could look at thirst as a unique love story , but not exactly a healthy one.in regards to the violence , while park does have a tendency to pull away from extremely graphic details , there 's enough sadism involved to perhaps turn the stomach a bit .
at the very least , the way the violence is carried out may be certain to leave a lasting impact .
the sexual situations between hyeon and tae-joo can be pretty heated and erotic , while also sordid and morally reprehensible .
the movie , i think , is still quite a complex examination of the lengths one will go to remain attached to an object of affection ( lust ) .