a beloved and devoted priest from a small town volunteers for a medical experiment which fails and turns him into a vampire .
physical and psychological changes lead to his affair with a wife of his childhood friend who is repressed and tired of her mundane life .
the one-time priest falls deeper in despair and depravity .
as things turns for worse , he struggles to maintain whats left of his humanity ... the vampire movie should have really been extinct now thanks to the poor efforts of the twilight and underworld franchises , but the director injects new blood into the story of the vampire , by putting simple things into perspective.these vampires have reflections , and no fangs , but still feed and die the same .
making the main protagonist a priest really opens up a can of worms for questioning ones acts .
the priest primarily feeds to make himself better , but when he meets his friends unfulfilled wife , carnal instincts set in.what makes this film intensely erotic is that when the couple consent for the first time , they are experiencing something they have never before , forbidden passion , which makes the scenario all that more sensual.chan-wook adds some much needed humour into the film , but this is only realised in the final third of the movie .
we see the daughter lift her mother in the chair in front of everyone , and when she realises her own strength , just puts the chair down and carry on .
hilarious.and the final act would n't be out of place in a carry on film , or even the three stooges as the couple fight for survival/death respectively.cgi is subtle and fantastic , and the scenes with them jumping from building to building is so graceful , you could be watching ballet.the vampire genre feels fresh and vibrant after this , but more importantly , has the eroticism and intensity that most vampire films are missing these days .
it 's violent , but from the director in question , i would n't expect anything different.a really interesting story , with fantastic characters and beautiful cinematography .