now that i have seen it , it was not what i was expecting , at least not until the very end .
i read some of the other reviews before picking up a used copy of this from amazon and was glad i did .
having been first introduced to park 's work via oldboy , i was curious to how he 'd treat the genre and was rather pleased at the clever manner in which he executed it .
i think park has matured in terms of presentation because while oldboy and some of his other work has very nice and deliberate camera work , he has some nice innovations in bakjwi that i had not seen in other vamp movies .
for example the scene where father hyeon is realizing the `` beast '' growing within him as he gives his shoes to the always barefoot tae-ju and he is able to see the blood pumping through tae-ju 's skin and his eye 's widen in blood-lust for it .
that was a nice effect .
i was also happy that park did not cg the crap out of the movie and the is in fact very little cg at all .
i came away from bakjwi being totally set up to think one thing was going to happen and get taken for a ride in true park fashion .
additionally , i liked that park played with a little symbolism and reversal whereas we do n't usually get this is asia cinema .
during the beginning of the movie we see the plot develop slowly and get to know the characters and you feel like an invisible observer to the thing that are transpiring .
park treats you a little like ghost of christmas future coming to show you , albeit a bit boringly , what life is like outside your world .
ah , but then we start to feel a little kinship with the befallen father and his burgeoning lust for tae-ju and conflict with duty as a priest .
we almost start to root for them even until park not so nicely slaps us back into reality and we really see that in the end bakjwi is a movie about moral dilemma and right and wrong .
it wo n't spoil it if i tell you to watch bakjwi from the mindset of a priest and i think you 'll come away from it with what park wants you to come away with .
do n't expect oldboy and stylization because that 's not what you 'll get here .
a very interesting take on the genre indeed .
those who missed the many literary elements and religious allusions watched some other movie , not bakjwi .
after bakjwi , watch let the right one in , it 's also not what you 'll expect either .