the vampire `` craze '' has , in my opinion , actually proved its worthiness of such infamous categorization .
there were many sub-genre films last year from a multitude of countries .
i 've reviewed many and have a few more to discuss .
forgive my indulgence , but since i 've recognized the trend as a phenomenon ( which it is and , coincidentally , features my favorite horror staple ) .
i 'm going to now move outside of north america for a bit and introduce you to hopefully meaning films that you did n't see as of now.of the many effects of twilight is the creation of `` guy '' and `` girl '' vampire movies .
i hate this sexist categorization , which has the effect of polarizing an entire generation of fans into `` sides '' .
i think men are prone to hate stephenie meyer 's work ( and its offspring ) to some degree because they feel some sense of betrayal that an archetype which was always theirs is now liberated .
women may be unlikely to enjoy future `` neutral '' pics since they grew up with ironclad expectations that were enforced four times .
we need more directors to create vampire films which either gender is capable of enjoying ( unequally ) if vampires are going to survive the craze and remain relevant .
cue : thirst this korean film was directed by park chan-wook of oldboy fame .
there are two ways to dissect it .
either it straddles between gender expectations and is universally marginally enjoyable , or it is a floundering mess that does n't decide which target audience it prefers and should therefore be viewed by no one .
do n't let me convince you that the film has no inclinations .
its director is a man whose fame is story-driven action films .
its protagonist is male and has a passive-aggressive interest in his lover ( more on this later ) .
still , his desire for a woman he has known both before and after mortal life is not contrived , and his attention is returned .
there is a male slant to this picture , yet it is not so one-sided that women could not enjoy it .
the same can not be said of daybreakers or new moon.the plot follows an emile zola novel called thérèse raquin , which i have not read .
according to wikipedia , the novel is about an affair that develops between a married woman and a single man .
he kills her husband during a fishing trip and begins dating her .
the two of them are incapable of having sex because they picture the dead man 's body between them .
they are thus driven to insanity , but care for the woman 's ailing mother .
at the novel 's conclusion , they try to kill each other , discover each other 's plans , and commit suicide.now , transcribe this nearly 150 year old french novel into modern south korea and you 've got thirst .
chan-wook does n't embellish the story enough to elevate this to must-see .
he often ignores many of his own ideas in favor of following his inspiration .
i think the most memorable parts are when his scruples are unhinged by narrative .
his use of the mother-in-law as the foil for their bad romance is just perfect .
see it.the protagonist is originally a devout christian who becomes a vampire after a faulty blood transfusion following his volunteering for a new medicine .
he thus becomes the god he once was smitten with .
people flock to him and view him as a grand healer .
ok. that 's really cool and could have provided a great basis for his relationship .
yet this idea is given little idea screen time as he changes into a realistic christ figure who tries to maintain his virtue even though his lifestyle demands that he relinquish it .
instead of confronting the delusional people , he instead sips blood out of comatose hospital patients.let 's continue with the christian allusion .
the woman tricks the vampire man into killing her husband .
her overprotective mother-in-law suffers a stroke and eventually warns friends of the family of her daughter-in-law 's treachery ( finger waggles ) .
the man kills her but resurrects her .
the two of them invite former friends over and the woman begins mercilessly harassing the humans .
the man says enough is enough and decides to drive to a beach and forces her into waiting for sunrise with him .
they both die , but he atones for her crimes ( and his own but the film portrays her evil more prominently ) .the woman character is a caricature , and her profession offers an explanation for her behavior .
she is a housewife with no education , while the man is a priest whose mortal life was restrictive .
vampirism magnifies their characteristics .
she becomes a monster like one would expect of someone without knowledge .
he becomes a demigod with a spirit .
his life is how atheists view themselves and her life is how religious people view those without divine intervention .