sorry about the `` extremely clever '' summary phrase .
i do n't know what i was thinking , but i really could n't help myself.i 've been meaning to see 'bloody birthday ' for a long time and i must say that it was a pleasant surprise to find a copy of this film by accident and for such a low price .
and believe me , i live in a small south american village and these things are very unlikely to happen .
it 's a real shame that some of these 'gems ' from the 80s are now almost completely forgotten .
'bloody birthday ' is one of those movies that surprisingly ages well enough to remain watchable nowadays .
not a masterpiece for sure , but still entertaining and guess what ?
... it does n't really have unintentionally funny scenes .
i know it 's a shocker if we keep in mind that this is a low budget flick from the early 80s about a group of evil children who kill people .
but trust me , the movie manages to remain respectable and watchable for the most part.in 'blood birthday ' , the story revolves around three children who are born during a a total eclipse .
according to astrology , during eclipses , the sun and the moon block saturn , which controls emotions .
as a consequence , the three children who are born that day , eventually become uncaring and evil .
since they do n't experience any feelings of remorse whatsoever , these 10-year-old kids gang up against basically everyone who stands in their way , including their own parents and siblings ... and kill them !
the body count increases day after day and the police authorities believe that there 's a psychopath lurking around the place .
in the meantime , debbie , curtis and steven , do n't hesitate to keep butchering people , since nobody seems to suspect of those sweet angel faces ( ? )
like i was saying before , 'bloody birthday ' is surprisingly not funny .
i know i said that before , but i 'm truly surprised by this .
i was expecting some hilariously bad scenes , but the movie proved me wrong .
true , it 's not exactly what most people would consider a 'serious ' horror movie , but if i have to be fair , i 'd say that the story is decently executed .
one of the most important reasons why one would normally expect laughable situations ( like i did ) , it 's because in these kind of movies in which the main villains are children , the young actors tend to be plain awful and they make the whole thing laughable .
let 's face it : kids tend to be horrible actors , which is understandable and we ca n't blame them for that .
but to my surprise , the three young actors who played the merciless killers in this film , looked very disturbing and not at all funny .
the rest of the actors are also good and if you 're a george clooney fan , you can see his uncle playing a doctor in this movie .
yeah , i know right ?
... who cares ?
.
also , julie brown , the great actress , singer , comedienne and gay icon , gives a solid performance as the naughty older sister and in case anyone is interested in nudity : she also strips in one of the scenes and she looks great naked .
too bad she did n't have more time on the screen though !
julie is 'absolutely fabulous ' : pso basically , this movie is fine if you 're in the mood for some modest horror from the 80s .
my only objection regarding 'bloody birthday ' would be the way to justify the children 's motives .
this is perhaps one of the lowest points of the film .
let 's see : if children who were born during an eclipse end up being heartless killers , then how come these three were the only ones who actually murdered people ?
i 'm sure there were other children who had been born the same day ... and during other days of total eclipse too , oh well !
.
overall , no big deal , it 's just a simple observation , that 's all .
i 've seen worse , trust me .
take 'the children ' ( 1980 ) for example , in which the precocious killer get their evilness after being turned into zombies by toxic cloud .
no , believe me , 'bloody birthday ' is far more decent and if you enjoy simple slashers , you 're going to enjoy this one very much.so , now you know : you 're invited to the children 's birthday party ... and the hosts will be serving a delicious poisoned cake for you and the rest of the guests .
come on , you ca n't miss it ; )