i ca n't believe i rarely ever see this title mentioned by all you eighties horror freaks and i definitely wo n't be joining all my fellow reviewers here in saying that 'bloody birthday ' is awful viewing .
on the contrary , i enjoyed it very much and i was pleasantly surprised by the ingeniousness and surprise twists it offers .
do n't just refer to this film as being 'another 80 's slasher ' because the victims here are rather unlikely and so are the killers .
we 're introduced to three cherubic-looking youngsters who were all born during a solar eclipse .
at the moment they were delivered , planet saturn was blocked by both the sun and the moon and , due to this , the kids are emotionless and seemly without conscience .
this really starts to show around their tenth birthday as they go on a merciless killing spree.granted , this stuff is incredibility far-fetched and even slightly offensive but , seriously , who cares ?
unlike many other horror films from this period , it at least attempts to bring something original and imaginative .
for once , the kids ' acting is good and the entire film has a creepy atmosphere and grizzly music .
the murders sequences are grim and tense , and it 's always eerie to see them getting committed by angel-faced kids .
i do n't know who hired the 3 kids but they did a good job .
especially the girl and the kid with glasses are highly memorable .
the bleak images of the heartless trio remind you of classic highlights , such as 'village of the damned ' , 'the bad seed ' and 'children of the damned ' .
this film is nowhere near as memorable as these milestones but great fun and not one horror lover will regret watching this .
bloody birthday was written and directed by ed hunt .
not particularly the greatest genius in cinema , but a pleasantly deranged fella who also brought us immensely entertaining cheesefests like 'the brain ' and 'starship invasions ' .
if all this is n't enough to convince you yet , bloody birthday has a lot of nudity .
and not just any nudity , but a topless dance-act by mtv-vj julie brown .
oh , and keep your eyes open for a completely redundant cameo by joe penny , later the star of tv-series 'jake and the fatman ' .
check it out !
!