director mikhail kalatozov 's film the cranes are flying ( letyat zhuravli ) is a glorious piece of cinema .
from the screenplay by viktor rozov , based on his own play , kalatozov shows us a vision of the heroism of war and the suffering by those left at home .
inundated with countless war movies showing us the frontlines and the carnage , the topic itself becomes tedious and avoidable .
however , this russian gem shows how the tale of hardship can be told in a different way ; by telling us , straight from a soldier 's mouth how war is hated by all , that they hope those who died did so for a cause that will allow for peace and the end of fighting , we see a new vision of wwii .
we have young men volunteering to wage war for peace , to keep their families and loved ones safe at home rather than draftees fighting a battle they do n't believe in .
with so much hatred towards our current situation in the middle east , and how people are dying for no reason , against their will , it 's nice to see a film that shows just how selfless and heroic these soldiers are , as well as those awaiting their return.communist russia shows how involved all were in the war .
while boris may have volunteered to go to the frontlines , his father is head doctor of a hospital aiding in the mending of soldiers injured and his sister is helping him there as well as his girl veronika , doing all she can to keep her mind off the fact that no letter has arrived from her love .
an entire city comes out to send the boys off in celebration .
even the factory that boris and his friend stepan work for send representatives over with gifts of gratitude .
whether this is all a glorified look into russia at the outset of wwii or not , i do n't know .
there are no protests or badmouthing of these boys risking their lives for a country , it is all praise and thanks .
some in america could learn a lesson from this because whether you agree with the war at hand or not , protesting and wreaking havoc in its name only sullies what these men and women are sacrificing each and everyday.the acting is top-notch throughout , but some deserve singling out .
i really enjoyed antonina bogdanova in a small role as boris ' grandmother .
she is the one family member he can trust and her sadness at his leaving is very evident on her face and through her body language .
vasili merkuryev , as the patriarch fyodor ivanovich , brings what is perhaps the best performance .
as spoken at the end , about fathers needing to choke back hidden tears , merkuryev epitomizes those sentiments .
he puts on a tough exterior , especially cracking jokes and riding his son hard when he finds out about his volunteering just hours before he must leave .
but when boris exits to go to the assembly station we see the true pain of the man , seated in sorrow at the table .
he loves his son dearly and although he may not be able to show it to him , his actions throughout the film express it to the audience .
aleksey batalov is effective as boris , a happy-go-lucky young man , and idealist , doing what he believes is right , and aleksandr shvorin is good as the villainous mark , staying home due to his talented piano skills , or maybe just to steal his cousin 's love .
that love , played by tatyana samojlova , really draws the audience in to her grief , dejection , and slim glimmer of hope .
the true star of the film , she must go through many emotions on a journey where she does lose her way , needing to steer back on course , hoping that she did so soon enough for boris ' return.besides the realism to the story , as well as being unafraid to use tragedy to get the theme across , i also loved the visual style of the film .
sergei urusevsky 's cinematography is amazing , especially when considering the movie was shot in fullscreen .
it is one thing to create stunning compositions in a widescreen panorama ; it is completely different to do so in a square frame .
right from the beginning we get a beautiful static shot of a winding walkway along water , a bridge in the background at the top , as our two lovers skip their way up the screen and into the distance .
there are multiple instances of the camera being behind barriers yet still allowing for the action to be seen , creating unique spatial depth and interest at all times .
sharp angles are utilized , as well as careful blocking to allow for overhead shots and exaggerated juxtapositions of characters in frame together.the real feats , however , are those instances of the long shot .
used well towards the end to follow veronika through the mass of returning soldiers , it is magnificent earlier on as she roams through those saying goodbye to their loved ones while she searches for boris , her own farewell needing to be said .
the planning for this shot must have been extensive because while she weaves in and out of people , the camera focuses on couples kisses , people yelling to one another , and more , all purposely in frame at specific moments while the camera moves through .
everyone needed to hit his mark precisely and it leads to a brilliant piece of cinema .
it 's just one part of an overall masterpiece of tone and style ; the cranes are flying shows how successful placement and mise en scène can be in showing the audience what it needs in as simple a way as possible .
composition and professionalism from the actors and crew can work wonders , adding something that huge setpieces and special effects can never do .