like in a circle the movie leads back to its point of departure , the image of the cranes that are crossing a muscovite sky .
they represent the freedom to realize your life as you wish , in order to aspire the greatest possible fulfilment.in the beginning veronica and boris experience such a promise of happiness , and their eyes follow the path of the cranes in exhilaration .
it seems as if they might be able to live according to their dreams.but man is not a bird .
life draws up its own rules , from which no human can escape and which we can not change - not even by making a supreme effort .
war breaks out , and without much hesitation boris signs up for the front in order to fulfil his patriotic duty .
he can not even say good-bye to veronica , for she arrives late at the assembly point from which the soldiers are sent away .
surrounded by a jubilant crowd all her attempts to attract boris ' attention must inevitably fail.boris eventually gets killed in war , without veronica learning about it for the moment .
his brother mark , a vigorous musician , who obtained the exemption from military service by corruption , is eager to take his place .
veronica initially resists , but in a frightful night of bombing she finally falls victim to his charms .
a marriage takes place , which is never accepted by the family.soon feelings of guilt seize hold of veronica and she realizes that boris ' return is the one and only thing she actually longs for .
she therefore eases her bad conscience and despair by the self-sacrificing work in a field hospital.when war finally is over , once again a crowd of enthusiastic people gathers in order to cheer the victorious soldiers .
again veronica is among them , forcing her way through a wall of bodies .
in her hand she is carrying a bunch of flowers , until she finally has to give it away to complete strangers , for one of the homecomers has just dashed her hopes by confirming the sad certainty of boris ' death.once again the cranes invade the sky , drawing their wayward lines .
but now veronica is watching them on her own , and the look in her eyes is a different one .
she has had to accept the impossibility to live according to preconceived plans , to follow the guidelines of your dreams .
for all humans are nothing but helpless puppets hanging on the inscrutable strings of fate .