unlike the many who have posted here , i 'm not movie literate .
i stumbled across this movie by accident ( channel surfing ) , and could n't surf away .
this is a truly incredible movie , worthy of all the praise the critics and those on this site have heaped on it .
the actors are terrific .
tatiana is beautiful and innocent .
her fiancé boris is sweet and patriotic .
you could n't help but feel boris ' father 's exasperation and sorrow as he upbraids his son for such foolishness as volunteering to serve in the great war.others have summarized the movie so well , so i 'll just mention a couple of scenes that moved me the most .
when boris ' brother reveals to his family that he has broken trust with his brother and `` has to marry '' tatiana , tatiana 's twisted mouth shows her revulsion at this betrayal ( even though her part in the unfaithfulness might have been through rape ) .
you fear that the rest of the movie might right this wrong by visiting just destruction on tatiana and the brother , or worse , show tatiana destroyed by an immoral descent into cigarette smoking decadence .
since this is n't `` french existential cinema '' , the latter does n't happen .
thankfully !
another scene that tears at your heart is when the unnamed `` musician '' soldier who was saved by boris returns to tell boris ' father of the death of his son .
he unwittingly breaks the news to tatiana .
i ca n't describe the sorrow of this scene ... still , tatiana finds finds a straw to grab and hope that boris will yet come home .
the musician actually never saw boris buried , after all.i wo n't mention more scenes , but do want to observe that the touches of soviet political correctness did n't detract at all from the film .
boris ' brother is revealed as the piano playing anti-soviet slacker that someone who steals his brother 's wife-to-be would have to be .
no doubt he gets at least a `` tenner '' at the conclusion of the film !
the ending , when tatiana finally learns for certain that boris is dead , still manages to end with cheerfully and full of hope for the future .
you do n't even want to imagine the tears and catharsis that must have swept through the theater when survivors of that war , with their own losses in mind , first saw this movie.incredible .
go see it .