the aftermath of world war two almost resulted in the death of soviet cinema .
in the early years of the 1950s , film production came close to a complete standstill { a mere nine feature-films were released in 1951 } , and the work of all filmmakers was closely monitored , and often censored , by the government .
following the death of joseph stalin in 1953 , filmmakers were given greater artistic freedom with their pictures , though many remained reluctant to challenge the heroic , optimistic and propagandistic stance towards warfare that had been prevalent in previous years .
it was n't until 1957 that director mikhail kalatozov and writer viktor rozov became bold enough to produce what is widely-considered the first post-stalin soviet masterpiece , 'letyat zhuravli / the cranes are flying , ' one of the finest depictions of war i 've seen from any country or time period .
not only was the film lauded for its artistic brilliance in the soviet union , but international recognition was soon to follow , and kalatozov 's film was honoured with the palm d'or at the 1958 cannes film festival .
'the cranes are flying ' is both an invigorating visual feast and an audacious , humanistic portrayal of war .
unlike many soviet war-themed films of the time , it was less constrained by the archetypal figure of the traditional war-time hero , and more concerned with the futility , brutality and , indeed , the inevitability of conflict .
love , as a cinematic concept , is too-often idealised as a notion that somehow conquers all and endures endless hardship , and yet the reality is substantially less romantic .
in the film , two lovers , veronika ( tatyana samojlova ) and boris ( aleksey batalov ) , separated by the advent of the wwii { widely known in the soviet union as the great patriotic war , 1941-1945 } , pledge to marry after the war , but tragedy denies the couple their wish .
driven to betrayal by the unending torment and uncertainty of waiting , veronika agrees to wed boris ' cousin , mark ( aleksandr shvorin ) , a handsome but unworthy youth .
the film may conclude with the proud victory of the soviets , and a patriotic flag-waving parade , but the optimism of this sequence is overwhelmingly eclipsed by the bittersweet tragedy of our young female protagonist , who wanders soullessly through the celebrating crowds.perhaps the most remarkable feature of 'the cranes are flying ' is sergei urusevsky 's inspired and dynamic hand-held cinematography , which realistically and dizzily captures the chaos and confusion of war , not necessarily in the hail of gunfire and the cries of dying comrades { in fact , only one of the film 's sequences joins boris on the eastern front } , but from the perspective of the family and friends who are left behind .
in one particularly impressive , oft-cited long shot , the camera follows veronika as she frantically searches for boris in a crowd of departing recruits and their families .
the hand-held camera smoothly follows the girl off a bus , jostles through the crowd alongside her - capturing momentary snippets of loved ones saying farewell to their sons and husbands - before unexpectedly craning above the crowd as veronika disappears into the dust of a passing squadron of army tanks , a breathtaking movement that offers scope and urgency to the dramatic episode .
urusevsky first acquired his filming experience as a military cameraman during the war , and obviously fell in love with the storytelling possibilities of hand-held photography : `` the camera , '' he once declared , `` can express what the actor is unable to portray : his inner sensations .
the cameraman must act with the actors . ''