i had long wanted to watch this romantic drama ( with a wwii setting ) and , now that i have , all i can say is that it 's a veritable masterpiece of russian cinema !
soviet films are known for their overzealous propagandist approach but , thankfully , this one 's free of such emphasis - with the interest firmly on the central tragic romance between a promising artist and a vivacious girl , doomed by the outbreak of war for which he gladly volunteers but from which he 'll never return .
the girl ( a remarkable performance from tatyana samojlova ) is also loved by the young man 's cousin and , when she does n't receive word from her boyfriend , gives in to the latter and marries him .
he , however , is an aspiring concert pianist bitter about the war having curtailed his chances for success and , knowing too that the girl 's still devoted to the soldier , begins to neglect her .
finally , word reaches the girl of her loved one 's death but , by the end of the film , she has learnt to accept this as a sacrifice to their native country and is content to live with her memories of him.the film features some truly amazing camera-work which makes extremely judicious use of the screen space and , by frequently adopting tracking , tilted and high or low angle shots , renders great power to the unfolding emotional drama .
individual sequences are equally impressive - two in particular : the stunning scene , frenetically edited and sped-up to boot , in which the girl saves an abandoned boy from being trampled by a truck ; and the young man 's premature demise in an unfortunate incident at the front , undoubtedly one of the best of its kind i 've ever watched ( with the sun moving away from him , symbolizing the life that 's seeping out of his body , as he imagines the wedding day he 'll never have ! )
.
also notable , however , is the scene where the girl goes to look for her parents in her home that 's been hopelessly devastated during an air raid ; as is her final violent capitulation to the concert pianist - which she tries to resist by repeatedly slapping him in the face - taking place during a later air raid and making particularly effective use of a set of billowing curtains !
disappointingly , the r1 dvd of this outstanding film is a bare-bones affair ( the ruscico edition features a few supplements but , being an export , tends to be heavily overpriced and hard to track down to boot ! )
; criterion released it in conjunction with another war-themed russian classic , ballad of a soldier ( 1959 ) - which my pal at the local dvd rental outlet has told me is forthcoming ... the only other film i 've watched from this director is the arctic epic the red tent ( 1969 ; albeit via the much-shorter u.s.-release version ! )
, a star-studded international production based on true events ; given the unmistakable artistic quality of the cranes are flying , i regret missing out now on his famous documentary i am cuba ( 1964 ) a number of times when i was in hollywood late last year : apart from receiving a one-week theatrical run , it was shown more than once on tv accompanied by a feature-length `` making of '' !
!