it does not surprise me that this short ( 91 minutes ) b/w movie that was made 50 years ago in the soviet union during the short period called `` ottepel ' '' or `` the thaw '' , has gained so much love and admiration among the movie lovers over the world .
it is sublime and beautifully filmed .
some scenes feel like there were made way ahead of their time .
sergei urusevsky 's camera work and creative discoveries were included in the text books and widely imitated .
the film tells the moving and timeless story of love destroyed by merciless war but eternally alive in the memory of a young woman .
it is also the film about loyalty , memories , ability to live on when it seems there is nothing to live for ; it is about forgiveness , and about hope .
the film received ( absolutely deservingly ) the grand prix at cannes film festival and tatiana samoilova was chosen as a recipient of a special award at cannes for playing veronika , the young girl happily in love with the best man in the world in the beginning of the movie .
after separation with her beloved who went to the front , the loss of her family in the bomb ride , and the marriage to the man she never loved and only wished he never existed , she turned to the shadow of herself , she became dead inside .
her long journey to redemption , to finally accepting death of her beloved and to learning how to live with it , is a fascinating and heartbreaking one and it simply wo n't leave any viewer indifferent.for me , the movie is very personal and dear because i was born and grew up in the city where its characters lived and were so happy in the beginning .
i walked the same streets , squares , and bridges over the moskva river .
every family in the former soviet union had lost at least one but often more than one family member to a combat or to the concentration camp or to the ghetto or to hunger , cold , and illnesses during wwii and my family is not exception .
my mother and grandmother knew the horrors of war and never healing pain of losses not just from the movies and the books .
`` cranes are flying '' speaks to me clearly and honestly and touches me very deeply .
it is a masterpiece of movie making but it is a part of my life - my background , my memory , and my past .