1956 was the 20th congress of the communist party and the soviet premier krushchev made a speech denouncing stalin and the stalinist purges and the gulag labor systems , revealing information that was previously forbidden , publicly revealing horrible new truths , which opened the door for a new soviet cinema led by mikhail kalatozov , once stalin 's head of film production .
this film features a red army that is not victorious , in fact they are encircled , in a retreat mode , with many people dying , including the hero , in a film set after 06-02-41 , the german invasion of russia when germany introduced the barbarossa plan , a blitzkrieg invasion intended to bring about a quick victory and the ultimate enslavement of the slavs , and very nearly succeeded , actually getting within 20 miles of moscow in what was a red army wipe out , a devastation of human losses , 15 to 20 million russians died , or 20 % of the entire population .
historically , this was a moment of great trauma and suffering , a psychological shock to the russian people , but the red army held and prolonged the war 4 more years until they were ultimately victorious .
during the war , stalin used the war genre in films for obvious morale boosting , introducing female heroines who were ultra-patriotic and strong and idealistic , suggesting that if females could be so successful and patriotic , then russia could expect at least as much from their soldiers .
stalin eliminated the mass hero of the proletariat and replaced it with an individual , bold leader who was successful at killing many of the enemy , an obvious reference to stalin himself , who was always portrayed in film as a bold , wise and victorious leader .
but kalatozov changed this depiction , as the cranes are flying was made after stalin 's death , causing a political thaw and creating a worldwide sensation , winning the cannes film festival palm d'or , as well as the best director and best actress ( tatyana samoilova ) , reawakening the west to soviet cinema for the first time since eisenstein 's ivan the terrible in the 40 's .
this film featured brilliant , breathtaking , and extremely mobile camera work from his extraordinary cinematographer sergei uresevsky , using spectacular crane and tracking shots , images of wartime , battlefields , moscow and crowded streets that are extremely vivid and real .
another brilliant scene features the lead heroine , veronica , who has n't heard from her lover , boris , in the 4 years at war , so he is presumed dead , but she continues to love him , expressed in a scene where she runs towards a bridge with a train following behind her , a moment when the viewer was wondering if she might throw herself in front of that train , instead she saves a 3 yr old boy named boris who was about to be hit by a car .
another scene captures the death of boris on the battlefield , who dies a senseless death , and his thoughts spin and whirl in a beautiful montage of trees , sky , leaves , all spinning in a kaleidoscope of his own thoughts and dreams , including an imaginary wedding with veronica .
this film features the famous line , `` you can dream when the war is over . ''
in the final sequence , when the war is over , the soldiers are returning in a mass scene on the streets , veronica learns boris died , all are happy and excited with the soldier 's return , but veronica is in despair , passing out flowers to soldiers and strangers on the street in an extreme gesture of generosity and selflessness revealing `` cranes white and gray floating in the sky . ''
the film was released in 1957 in russia , and according to some reviews , `` the silence in the theater was profound , the wall between art and living life had fallen ... and tears unlocked the doors . ''