the creative team of jim abrahams , david zucker and jerry zucker had their roots in improvisational theatre in madison , wisconsin , i believe it was .
they had a group called 'kentucky fried theatre ' ( or something similar . )
they put a bunch of their set pieces onto celluloid as'kentucky fried movie ' ( 1977 ) , which was long , irreverent , sophomoric and really funny.they followed up with the very popular , airplane !
( 1980 ) , which really put them on the map .
in it , they took some rather well known veteran actors in robert stack and ( especially ) leslie nielsen , and putting them in prominent roles , proceeded to parody every cliché of every aviation film since the days of john wayne 's ( batjac ) production of the high and the mighty ( 1954 ) .
* pockets stuffed with cash and now having been noticed , the trio worked out a deal with pramount television and the american broadcasting company tv network to do a half hour comedy spoof of the nearly countless police crime drama show that have come and gone on our television screens over the years .
remembering the fine job that mr. leslie nielsen had turned in on airplane !
, he was cast in the lead.as sgt/lt./captain frank drebbin ( the rank designation switch being one of their comic bits ) , he presided over a great series of successive puns , sight gags , non sequitors , and overblown police/crime clichés.all of these strung together by some , seemingly standard scripts .
added to this is overly dramatic opening narration , voiced over information contradicting the visual printed info .
they always used this in giving the title of the episode titles , where voice and printed titles never matched.they had a great musical score , which even though being somewhat exaggerated , would have passed as theme and incidental music in a straight drama.the musical score , the opening titles and format of having the episodes divided into act i , act ii , epilogue , etc.
, were all part of obvious , but affectionate , ribbing of q.m .
( quinn martin ) productions .
( they even had the same announcer as did the real q.m.
's . )
one thing that this all too short of a series did not have was a technically augmented audience laughter .
and , boy they sure did n't need any phony tract .
the nature of the spoof was such that it demanded the viewer 's close , almost undivided attention , and that proved to be the ultimate reason behind police squad 's downfall.in regards to the series cancellation , an abc executive explained that the episodes `` ... called for too much attention on the part of the viewer . ''
so , is n't that what one would want ?
so , after only 6 wonderfully wacky , hilarious episodes , off to the afterlife of series cancellation went police squad !
, only to be reborn in the naked gun trilogy , made for the big screen in movie houses .
once again , they did quite well at the box office .
oh well , tv 's loss is cinema 's gain , thanks to you mr. idiot tv exec !
* the high and mighty was produced by the duke 's own batjac productions and released by warner brothers .
it was unavailable for quite a number of years and finally , mr. wayne 's family made arrangements to release it to television and to video .