the funniest show ever on tv , albeit the humor is not for everyone .
i realize it would have been hard to keep the show fresh if it had ran longer , but it 's a shame only six episodes were filmed .
the gags fly rapidly from the opening credits until the very end , when you would see drebin and his boss , ed hocken , pretending to be in freeze frame as the closing credits rolled , during which the criminal ( still moving ) would see everyone else motionless and try to escape .
in another episode , the building started collapsing around them as drebin and hocken remained in freeze mode.leslie nielsen was comedic brilliance as frank drebin and the perfect fit for this show how he managed to keep a straight face through some of this is beyond me .
because the jokes and sight gags came so often and quick , you can watch the episodes a 2nd and 3rd time and catch things you missed the first time .
if you 're like me , you can watch them over and over and still find yourself laughing .
even the jokes that made no sense nor seemingly had any reason to them , such as the `` rex hamilton as abraham lincoln '' tag-line in the opening announcement , somehow worked perhaps they were thrown in there precisely for that reason.cleverly spoofing the old quinn martin detective/cop shows of the 1970s , police squad would return from commercial break with the words `` act two '' appearing on the screen , which was immediately followed by `` yankees one '' or some other quip .
on the opening credits , the episode 's title would appear on the screen , but the announcer would utter a completely different title .
my favorite jokes and lines from this series are way too numerous to list , but one of my favorites is when drebin asks a down-on-his-luck boxer who has previously tanked fights , `` do you think you can beat the champ ? ''
the boxer responds , `` i can take him blindfolded ! ''
to which drebin responds back , `` but what if he 's not blindfolded ? ''
a minute later , in reference to the boxer 's small , dingy apartment , drebin tells him , `` i 'm going to help you get out of this sewer . ''
the next thing you see , drebin is popping up through a manhole cover on the street !
in another episode , drebin and hocken are questioning a bombing suspect 's flimsy alibi .
drebin , not believing him , says , `` alright , let 's say you did go the movies . ''
after a slight pause , drebin , hocken , and the suspect all look at the camera and in unison say , `` you did go the movies . ''
a few moments later , when drebin is forced to let the suspected bomber walk free due to lack of evidence , he storms away and angrily yells , `` tell that bomber to take off ! ''
what 's seen next is a cop giving the thumbs-up signal to a wwii-style plane on a runway right outside the building !
while there were many classic drebin quotes , one particularly memorable one was , `` sorry to bother you mrs. twice .
we would have come earlier , but your husband was n't dead then . ''
another classic was , `` i 'm a locksmith and , i 'm a locksmith . ''
when a visibly shaken kidnap victim 's father asks drebin , `` what i do i do ? ''
drebin , in classic deadpan fashion , responds back , `` well , as i understand it , you 're in the textile business . ''
as i said , the humor is not for everyone many people simply will not `` get '' it .
during the show 's brief run , i remember the reaction being very mixed .
some people thought it was absolutely hysterical and one of the funniest things around , while others thought it was the stupid and unfunny .
for me , police squad , even 20+ years later , is the funniest thing i 've ever seen on tv .
for younger viewers who enjoy this type of humor but who have never seen police squad because they were too young when the series initially aired , i highly recommend .
i found the six episodes to be even funnier than the subsequent `` naked gun '' movies .