the creative team that brought us police squad - and the naked gun derived from it - said in interview that they were told by their network contact that the show would be canceled , after their delivery of the first episode .
basically , the show was never given any chance .
typical hollywood .
the contact apparently told the team that the problem with the show was that , for the show to be funny , the viewer would actually need to watch it ; most shows are presented on tv with the understanding that the viewer needed to get up and miss a few minutes while getting food , or going to the toilet , etc.the humor of the show is extremely dry ( it uses no laugh-track ) , and the universe the characters inhabit is one in which anything can happen , regardless of logic , as long as it was totally unbelievable ; so , for instance in one episode a surgeon has to bribe an informant on the street in order to get a tip on heart surgery.those familiar with the naked gun films should be warned that there are a number of interesting disjunctions between the show and the films .
in the films , nielsen developed a particular `` take '' approach - that is , eyes widened when confronted with the unexpected .
this does n't happen in the show , where nielsen 's drebin is the center around which the rest of the universe revolves - nothing is unexpected to him .
also , there are no romances in the show , and no parodies of mtv .
finally , the show takes certain risks that the films avoid ; in the first episode , drebin , to `` re-enact the crime '' , has a squad of homicide detectives shoot each other from a number of different angles - ballistics the hard way .
this is actually a risky bit of humor , since we need to accept that it 's perfectly normal for policemen to kill each other while investigating a crime , for no other reason than experimentation .
this sort of thing rarely happens in the films.taken individually , each of the episodes is actually funnier than any one of the naked gun films , since they are both more compact ( more happens in a shorter time-frame ) , yet more leisurely paced ( there 's not the rush for a punch-line as sometimes happens in the films ) .
there are some inconsistencies that happen in the films ( primarily `` 2 '' and `` 3 '' ) that never occur in the show 's shorter time-frame.of course , there 's no doubt that naked gun ( the first film ) is one of the great comedies of theatrical cinema .
and if you watch the tv show episode after episode in one sitting , the dry quality of the humor might wear away one 's tolerance.none the less , it would be useful to have a dvd of this , and watch an episode a day for a few weeks - if laughter has , as some claim , medicinal value , watching this show is good for one 's health .