a fantastic musical starring gene kelly and rita hayworth .
he owns a nightclub where she dances .
she 's no star yet , but she gets a big break when she 's chosen as a cover girl for vanity , whose owner was actually in love with her grandmother .
when he sees the resemblance , he picks her right away for a contest his maganzine is running .
hayworth 's newfound fame at first works wonders for kelly 's club , but her star rises so quickly and so high up that his grasp on her begins to falter .
this is n't the most original of plots , but the two leads really make it work .
it also helps that the screenplay is great .
kelly 's not yet at his peak , especially his peak as an actor .
his dancing , however , wow .
hayworth is the star , but kelly claims the film 's most memorable moment as he dances passionately with his own reflection .
it 's obviously a take-off of fred astaire 's shadow dancing in swing time , but i think kelly one-ups it , which is hardly believable .
in fact , this has got to be the most amazing dance sequence in film history , save perhaps the finale of an american in paris several years later .
the rest of the songs are also excellent , and the musical numbers are even better .
too bad rita did n't sing her own songs ( well , she may have a couple of them , as her singing voice seemed to be different sometimes ) .
her dancing is wonderful , as is the rest of her acting .
it 's hard not to love her in anything .
she 's really one of the few truly beautiful women from the classic era .
not plastic like many of them ; no , you can really see the warmth in that woman .
her smile is so disarming .
phil silvers has the role as kelly 's best friend , and he is also very funny .
the trio of kelly-hayworth-silvers is obviously the kernel which became the kelly-reynolds-o'connor trio in singin ' in the rain eight years afterwards .
one of the biggest musical numbers in the film seems almost completely pilfered with the `` good morning '' number in singin ' .
i do think singin ' in the rain is the better film , as cover girl is a little rough around the edges .
this roughness , though , just adds to the charm .
there are aspects of this film that beat singin ' in the rain , and even an american in paris .
for instance , the central relationship is more emotionally involving .
instead of the dominant older man chasing the little girl ( leslie caron and debbie reynolds were just teenagers , after all ) , we have a very nice relationship with two people who seem more like equals .
there is no chasing around - an aspect that does unfortunately turn a lot of the best musicals a little sour , you have to admit .
kelly and hayworth are a couple from the start , and when that begins to fray , i really felt it .
9/10 .