this has got to be one of the better post-astaire musicals made by columbia .
produced by arthur schwartz and directed by vet charles vidor , this picture really put gene kelly on the map and cemented rita hayworth 's reputation as cinema 's premier female dance partner .
she plays a bit of a dual role here since she performs contemporary 1940s numbers with gene and co-star phil silvers , but also puts her in the role of her grandmother , a nightclub performer in the late 19th centry.the music should also be singled out because this was i believe the last project that the legendary jerome kern ( most famous today for `` old man river '' and `` smoke gets in your eyes '' ) worked on , and his lyricist was the equally legendary ira gershwin .
they supplied a score that is full of charm and characterization .
the music for the historical sequences is especially noteworthy because it 's so perfectly styled in the early 20th century idiom that was kern 's original period .
it 's a bit like picking up a record from one of your favorite bands from the 1970s and hearing them do a song in the original style of that time.the story is pretty inconsequential , which is fine with me because this film is as close an approximation as you will ever be likely to see of the 1930s/40s golden age of broadway musical comedy style on film .
even the 1940s war propaganda aspects of the film 's music give it extra charm as the talented trio sing `` make way for tomorrow '' and even humorously poke fun at america 's enemies and use period slang such as referring to `` gremlins '' .probably the most memorable performance in the film is kelly 's dance to the `` alter-ego dance '' , which found him arguing with and then dancing with himself as a metaphorical image of the battle of the conscience .
this prefigures much of his later work and also stands an effective and memorable scene in and of itself.fans will want to seek this out for various reasons -- kelly fans will see this as a rare chance to see him outside of the confines of mgm with a different set of co-stars and music superior to his usual mgm material .
hayworth fans will want to see rita in glorious color at the peak of her fame and ability .
and fans of classic broadway musicals will definitely want to hear kern 's final score and marvel at the quality of gershwin 's lyrics and the compatibility of their styles .
this is a definite gem in the crown of columbia 's musical program .