rita hayworth is right there where she should be - as a `` cover girl '' in this 1944 technicolor film also starring gene kelly , phil silvers , eve arden , lee bowman , and otto kruger .
rita plays a beautiful showgirl , rusty , working at a small club owned by the man she loves , danny ( kelly ) .
each friday they go out for oysters with genius ( silvers ) , the club comedian .
they all hate oysters , but they 're looking for a pearl .
when they find one , all three of them will have good luck , they believe.rusty auditions and wins the role of cover girl for a magazine - she starts off ahead of the other contestants because the magazine owner ( kruger ) sees a resemblance between rusty and the girl he once loved , who turns out to be rusty 's grandmother .
once she becomes the cover girl , the world opens up for her and her dreams of appearing on broadway come true .
danny wants her to have her success , but at the same time realizes he 's lost her .
`` cover girl '' has exuberant dance numbers and songs by jerome kern , with rita dubbed by martha mears .
rita is at her best playing both rusty in the present and her grandmother in the past .
for such a sexy , desirable , gorgeous woman , she was apparently very insecure and always under the thumb of domineering men .
none of this ever showed on screen , nor did the fact that she did n't want to be a movie star .
she is one of the true goddesses and brought everything she did to life .
gene kelly is in a serious role here , but gets plenty of chances to dance and sing .
phil silvers is very amiable and funny as the in-house comic and best friend.this is a very good movie with no dull spots .
the only problem i had is the idea that rusty has to choose between a successful career and the man she loves .
when supermodel jinx falkenberg , who plays herself in the film , speaks of getting married , she 's warned by her boss not to , that she 's too necessary to the modeling business .
we 're not told if rusty continues with her career or goes back to work at danny 's - but all signs seemed to point toward the brooklyn club .
why could n't she have had both ?
nevertheless , you ca n't beat `` cover girl '' for top entertainment , beautiful color , lovely music , great energy , fine performances , and its most fabulous asset , the glorious rita hayworth .