this is one of the best musicals of the 1940s .
the glorious technicolor shows off rita hayworth 's beauty and spectacular hair .
she should have made more movies in color , but then columbia was hardly in a position to splash out money for technicolor spectaculars.rita is a wow as rusty parker - she more than keeps up with gene in some of the most sparkling numbers ever .
she also looked beautiful in turn of the century gowns , so she was given a chance to play her own grandmother.the film opens with `` the show must go on '' - it looks great to me - but danny mcguire ( gene kelly ) is not impressed .
his motto is work , work , work !
!
!
one of the dancers , maurine ( lesley brookes ) is determined to better herself and is going to audition for vanity 's golden wedding cover girl competition .
rusty just happens to find herself at the auditions as well .
in a very funny scene maurine has just had a so so audition and seeing rusty , gives her a few tips on how to impress the judges !
!
!
`` do n't be shy and demure - chatter and sparkle '' .
rusty does so with gusto !
!
!
they decide on maurine and go to the show to see her but john coudair ( otto kruger ) sees rusty - she reminds him of someone from his past .
cornelia ( eve arden ) is still having nightmares over rusty 's audition .
`` whose complaining '' features genius ( phil silvers ) and the dancers , dressed up as working girls - ( rusty is a cabbie ) .john is remembering a long lost love ( rusty 's grandmother , maribelle hicks ) the first time he saw her singing `` a sure thing '' - set at the races .
meanwhile danny , rusty and genius are looking for pearls at their local diner .
they then launch into the happiest song of the 1940s ( in my opinion ) - `` make way for tomorrow '' .
`` put me to the test '' is a spirited song and dance number featuring danny and rusty .
in the meantime rusty has been chosen cover girl and danny mcguires ' is the place to be seen .
lee bowman appears as danny 's romantic rival and puts a damper on things .
lee bowman is probably the most boring leading man ever - so danny never needs to worry.rusty ( dubbed by martha mears ) sings `` long ago and far away '' and it is danced beautifully by danny and rusty .
the gowns that rita wears are stunning .
travis banton and gwen wakeling designed them .
danny wants the best for rusty but is afraid he will lose her .
gene kelly is also fantastic in the `` alter ego '' number where he dances with himself .
`` poor john '' is another look back to the turn of the century - it was written in 1906 and is an extremely funny song poking fun at rich relations - hayworth looks gorgeous in an amazingly quaint outfit .
look for al norman in both `` poor john '' and `` a sure thing '' .
he was an amazing eccentric dancer , who appeared in several early musicals , including `` king of jazz '' and `` paramount on parade '' .
he was easy to spot.the `` cover girl '' dance is just wonderful .
rita was so talented - beautiful and a great dancer .
after a bevy of beautiful models parade through covers of america 's top magazines , rusty bursts through in a beautiful gold gown dancing down a ramp to the very catchy `` cover girl '' song .
gosh i just love this movie !
!
!
!
highly recommended .