this is a very enjoyable , fluffy , glamorous musical from the 40 's .
'cover girl ' made rita hayworth ( formerly the dark-haired latin senorita margarita cansino ) into a bona-fide , all-american star .
it confirmed gene kelly 's amazing talent as a dancer , singer , actor and choreographer .
it epitomises the exuberance and colour of the musical genre.rita hayworth is great as rusty parker- it is her picture , and her presence is always at the forefront .
her singing is dubbed , but her dancing is absolutely brilliant and she combines very well with kelly .
i think that rita was highly underrated as an actress- she plays every scene superbly here .
gene choreographed the dance sequences ( he was basically given almost complete creative freedom here ) , and his 'alter ego ' dance number is amazing .
such artistry .
the stand-out tunes are 'make way for tomorrow ' , 'put me to the test ' , and , of course , 'long ago and far away ' .
the plot is rather thin , yet it does have a moral .
it 's about the perils of quick fame and fast money , and how any happiness with only these factors will ultimately be doomed .
this will cheer you up , lift you up to your feet and make you laugh.that said , 'cover girl ' is not the greatest musical ever produced- it has a number of flaws that must be addressed .
one can say that a little bit of phil silvers goes a long way .
his character gets tedious rather quickly .
however , i was impressed with his dancing ability and how he was able to keep up with gene and rita .
another major problem is that too many songs are just not that great .
the 'cover girl ' number looks fantastic , but i 'm not a fan of the lyrics or the singing .
'poor tom ' is a huge downer .
i think it 's one of the worst numbers i 've heard in a 40's-50 's musical yet .
it stinks .
the grandmother sub-plot borders on being ridiculous .
but that 's only my opinion .
others may like these elements.still , apart from it 's faults it 's a very , very good film , much better than most of the product churned out today .
the dancing and singing is sublime , the production values are excellent , and it 's mood is infectious.8/10 .