rita hayworth as rusty parker is the cover girl du jour -- she 's one of the dancing girls in danny mcguire 's club , the most special one according to danny ( gene kelly ) and pretty much anyone who comes across her .
take for example , vanity magazine magnate john coudair ( otto kruger ) : enchanted by rusty 's resemblance to her grandmother maribelle ( also played by hayworth in flashbacks ) , whom he wooed devotedly when he fell in love with her , he tries to relive his youth by fixing what he thinks went wrong between himself and maribelle .
he does n't believe that danny could give rusty happiness , or everything she should be entitled to -- he even gets danny believing this himself .
when rusty shoots to fame as vanity 's 'cover girl ' , danny drives her away into the ready and waiting arms of noel wheaton ( lee bowman ) .
so what happens when danny returns to town with his sidekick genius ( phil silvers ) in tow , only to discover that rusty is marrying wheaton ?
as a musical , cover girl benefits from the beautiful score and songs written by jerome kern and ira gershwin , including the oscar-nominated 'long ago and far away ' ( possibly one of the most gorgeous ballads ever written and beautifully , sweetly sung as a duet by hayworth and kelly ) , maribelle 's number 'sure thing ' ( the more lacklustre 'poor john ' is n't a kern/gershwin collaboration ) and 'put me to the test ' .
the dancing , of course , is top-notch , since gene kelly had more than just a hand in the choreography .
it shows in the simplest of dances , for example his dance with hayworth to 'put me to the test ' , or the joyfully exuberant 'make way for tomorrow ' number ( performed by the trio of danny , rusty and genius ) ... which foreshadows the reaction gene 's character has to the police cop in the title number in singin ' in the rain .
kelly especially scored a technological and artistic coup with the 'alter-ego ' dance .
like its successors in anchors aweigh and an american in paris ( jerry the mouse and the 16-minute ballet respectively ) , this dance is an example of the incredible innovation and creativity kelly brought to the modern film musical : wanting to use the film medium to present dances that could n't be showcased on a stage , and years before cgi , kelly insisted on dancing with the one person who could possibly match him in talent and style -- himself .
the number is hardly five minutes long , but it ( and kelly 's genius ) still takes one 's breath away , even sixty years down the line .
this is the reason i watched cover girl , and if nothing else , this dance is truly worth it.you can tell that a great deal of money was lavished onto cover girl and rita hayworth -- not that she does n't deserve it .
witness the scene when rusty hits broadway -- the large screen showcasing all the different cover girls gives way to a staggeringly large stage rigged for rusty 's entrance .
hayworth is indeed one of the most effortlessly beautiful girls on show in the film , and she dances with a style and grace that is almost worthy of kelly .
( very few of kelly 's co-stars have that honour . )
she is hilarious in some scenes , for example her drunk scene when john and wheaton come to get her from joe's.for some reason , however , her performance still lacks the spark of greatness which would help cover girl overcome its general curse of mediocrity .
that curse is only lifted whenever gene kelly is on the screen ( dancing or no ) , or when eve arden as john 's long-suffering secretary 'stonewall ' sidles by with another cutting comment or clever observation .
since the film , in the end , belongs to hayworth , neither kelly nor arden can save it as a whole .
this is n't to say that the film is bad -- it is n't .
it 's enjoyable , with great songs and cute numbers and lots of pretty girls to look at .
but it 's just not quite a classic .
the dancing is classic though -- so watch cover girl for that , and you wo n't regret it .