`` sir '' has played lear over 200 times , but tonight he ca n't remember his opening lines.sitting at the mirror , his eyes reflect the king 's madness .
his dresser prompts him gently , mouthing the words.there is an air of desperation about both these men.the great actor knowing his powers are slipping away , his valet cum major domo cum conscience cum surrogate wife - aware of his boss 's decline into madness and knowing he is powerless to do more than ease his passing .
`` the dresser '' is really a love story between the two.over the years they have become mutually dependent on one another to the extent that neither can conceive a future without the other .
set during the second world war , it concerns the fortunes of a frankly second - rate touring shakespearean company comprising an equal number of has - beens and wannabes led by `` sir '' , a theatrical knight of what might kindly be called `` the old school '' .whatever part he is playing he grabs centre - stage and bellows out over the footlights , bullying his audience into applause.but , somewhere inside him , buried most of the time deep beneath the ham he regularly dishes out , there still remains an occasional glitter of his earlier greatness.it is to catch a glimpse of this that his audiences fervently hope for .
mr a.finney very cleverly concentrates on the ham , often to the point of caricature , and , just when you are ready to dismiss his performance as mere hyperbole and bluster he will produce a moment of exquisite subtlety and vulnerability that makes you realise that a great actor is playing a great actor .
the same goes for mr t.courtenay.it 's easy to write off his portrayalof norman as an exercise in stereotyping.here we have a middle - aged effeminate rather than camp theatrical dresser sashaying his way through life , enjoying the company of `` the girls '' and loving the wicked insider gossip rife in `` the theatre '' .there were - and i strongly suspect still are - many men just like norman in the profession.infinitely kind and patient , knowing more about the plays than many of the actors , they run backstage with wisdom and affection.i believe the vast majority of them would hoot with approving laughter at mr courtenay 's portrait .
i saw `` the dresser '' on the london stage where , against the perceived wisdom , mr courtenay 's `` norman '' was rather more subdued than in the movie .
`` sir '' was played by the great mr freddie jones to huge acclaim from the audience.it was a memorable performance that overshadowed mr courtenay 's , reducing him rather to an `` also - ran '' as opposed to an actor on level - billing.the idea that `` sir '' and `` norman '' might be almost incomplete without each other went right out of the window .
`` norman '' was reduced to being his puppet , which i 'm not sure was what ronald harwood intended , but made for breathtaking theatre .
messrs finney and courtenay redress the balance in the movie , restoring equality to the relationship .
both men have come a long way since their early appearances in the british `` new wave '' pictures when they became the darlings of the vaguely leftish , '' middle - class and ashamed of it '' movement.when the british cinema virtually committed hari - kiri in the 1970s they quietly concentrated on the theatre apart from a few roles to keep the wolf from the door.with the renaissance of more substantial movies , they re - appeared , blinking in the unaccustomed bright light .
`` the dresser '' marked their return , still fizzing with energy and talent , shouting to the world at large `` we 're still here '' .it 's not a big movie but is assuredly a great one .