it took a loan out film to columbia for gene kelly 's home studio mgm to realize his creative talent and give him some control over what he did in his own films .
cover girl also became rita hayworth 's signature film for the gis and their pinup fantasies during world war ii.kelly plays the owner of a small nightclub in brooklyn where rita is a featured dancer and phil silvers the comic .
of course kelly does a bit of hoofing himself there.hayworth comes to the attention of millionaire otto kruger when it turns out that kruger had loved and lost hayworth 's grandmother .
in some flashback sequences from the gaslight era , hayworth also plays her own grandmother with jess barker playing the young kruger .
you might remember jess barker was the husband of that other legendary screen redhead , susan hayward.broadway producer lee bowman also is attracted to hayward , but he 's not interested in nostalgia .
he wants her for his ziegfeld follies revue and in fact the biggest number of cover girl is the title song of the film .
it 's nicely done in follies style.hayworth also gets to sing a sure thing in a gaslight era number and in the only song in the show not written by jerome kern and ira gershwin , hayworth also does an old english music hall number poor john .
when i say sing , as everyone knows rita mouths words .
singing here is done by nan wynn.the biggest hit of the show is long ago and far away which is introduced by gene kelly .
it was one of the biggest hits of the world war ii era and one of the biggest sellers jerome kern ever wrote .
it happens in fact to be a favorite of an aunt of mine who with my uncle will be celebrating 60 years of marriage this september .
long ago and far away was nominated for best song , but lost to swinging on a star.what really sets cover girl apart and what makes it a milestone film for gene kelly is the two numbers put me to the test and the alter ego number .
harry cohn decided to do what louis b. mayer had refused at mgm , to give kelly creative control of his own material .
kelly later said the alter ego number was one of the hardest things he ever attempted in his career .
in it he dances with a pale reflection of himself and the choreography is dazzling and intricate .
in fact after one more loan out film , christmas holiday at universal , louis b. mayer never loaned out gene kelly for the rest of the time he was at mgm .
and he did get creative control from then on.with that dazzling technicolor cinematography and rita 's red hair and gene kelly 's boundless creativity , cover girl was and is a classic and will forever be so .