the third entry in the `` stepford '' franchise , but apparently the three made-for-tv obscure sequels are incredibly obscure and hard to trace down , whereas the 70 's original as well as the blockbuster remake with nicole kidman are commonly known and very popular .
i have n't seen either the early 80 's `` revenge of the stepford wives '' or the mid 90 's `` the stepford husbands '' , but this `` the stepford children '' is a quite charming and highly entertaining little film .
it 's basically the exact same film as the original ; obviously less mysterious yet much cheesier and incredibly 80 's to the nth degree .
the main difference here , like the title implies , is that not just the liberated wives but also the rebellious and punk teenage offspring in town undergoes the typical and highly effective `` stepford treatment '' , licensed by the local men 's association .
for some reason the scenario attempts to uphold the stepford mystery until late in the film , even though nobody is likely to watch this sequel before having checked out the original and presumably everybody also knows about the denouement .
the harding family is all packed and ready to move from the grisly city of new york to the small and peaceful community of stepford .
particularly father steven is excited about their new life because he already lived in stepford and always wanted to go back ever since his first wife , whom his new wife laura and adolescent children mary and david know very little about , died under mysterious circumstances .
the town is almost too perfect , with picturesque neighbors and model students , and especially the modern teenagers face huge difficulties to adjust .
their efforts to modernize the place and take the local youth of stanford in tow cause confrontations with the eminent townsfolk , particularly the members of the men 's association , and put the familial relationships under a lot of stress .
david meets and falls in love with the last `` normal '' girl in school lois , but when even she transforms into a domestic dummy overnight , david can convince his skeptical mother to investigate the sinister stanford secret .
the first hour of `` the stanford children '' is slow-paced and rather tame , but the finale is trashy and cheesy like the vhs cover promises and like a late 80 's thriller ought to be , in fact .
the modus operandi behind the stanford secrets is illustrated in greater detail , and i think horror fans and lovers of the original film will appreciate that .
at least , i did .
the overall plot still does n't make a lot of sense and the script is chock-full of irrational aspects , but it 's nonetheless an engaging formula and undoubtedly one that evokes an atmosphere of suspense and fear .
the acting performances are far above average .
especially the arrogant and obnoxious members of the men 's association depict plausible characters and even teenage players tammy lauren and randall batinkoff give away impressive performances .
recommended without hesitation !