comic secret agents have made a comeback in recent years , with mike myers ' 'austin powers ' and rowan atkinson 's 'johnny english ' , and more recently steve carell in the big-screen version of the hit '60 's show 'get smart !
'.back in 1974 , it was david jason who was wearing a shoulder holster and carrying an attaché case full of documents marked 'classified ' .
'the top secret life of edgar briggs ' was his first starring role in a sitcom , after years of being a supporting actor in such shows as 'six dates with barker ' , the 'doctor ' series , and 'hark at barker'.humphrey barclay had found him working in a pier theatre in bournemouth and was sufficiently impressed to include him alongside michael palin , terry jones and eric idle in the children 's comedy show 'do not adjust your set ! '
.
't.t.s.l.o.e.b ' cast jason as 'edgar briggs ' , a well-meaning but incompetent agent for the secret intelligence service .
whereas john steed wore a bowler hat , briggs had a trilby .
whereas napoleon solo carried a radio pen , briggs owned a pipe .
objects fell to bits in his hands .
he read confidential documents in bed while his wife ( barbara angell ) perused woman 's own ( on one occasion it would be the other way round ) .
when he tracked a pair of russian agents to a heliport , he accidentally switched on the airport 's tannoy system , and broadcast his plans to capture them !
when he hid on a train so as to photograph a meeting between an s.i.s .
man and his enemy-contact , it moved off with him aboard and took him straight to brighton !
when he tried to organise the defection of a female russian scientist , he took a 'short cut ' to elude his pursuers , only to wind up hopelessly lost in a car park .
yet , like 'inspector clouseau ' , he always seemed to come out on top at the end , much to the dismay of his colleagues.as previously mentioned , he was married .
his wife jennifer was understanding about the sort of work he did .
though they had a row once which resulted in her yelling at him from the window of their high-rise flat : `` secret service this , secret service that !
you never stop thinking about the secret service ! ''
.
he shouted back : `` think of the neighbours !
they 're not supposed to know i 'm in the secret service !
`` .briggs was part of a team of agents whose number included 'coronation street ' villain mark eden ( he was the psychotic alan bradley ) as 'spencer ' , michael stainton as 'buxton ' , and 'doctor at sea '' s elisabeth counsell as the lovely 'cathy strong ' .
they answered to 'the commander ' , played by the late noel coleman .
the commander was kidnapped in one episode , leaving briggs temporarily in charge of the s.i.s .
- which naturally horrified everyone.this hilarious show was by richard laing and bernard mckenna , who had written for the 'doctor ' series .
rather than spoof bond , it was more of a send-up of the serious spy shows such as 'callan ' ( though it had a bond-style theme tune ) .
furtive meetings in underground car parks , code-breaking , stolen missile plans , that kind of thing .
jason brought a lot of energy to the role , doing a lot of his own stunts , such as briggs falling off a ladder whilst decorating his flat , and tumbling down a hill in a wastepaper bin , and were reminiscent of those to be found in the 'pink panther ' films .
'briggs ' had all the ingredients to be a smash-hit .
unfortunately , it was not networked .
in the london area , it was put out on sundays at 7.25 p.m. where it was trounced in the ratings by the b.b.c .
's soapy drama 'the brothers ' .
it was then moved to fridays at 7 p.m. because i.t.v .
wanted to showcase its latest american import - the t.v .
version of 'planet of the apes ' .
briggs never found an audience .
a similar fate befell jason 's next major show : 1976 's 'lucky feller ' .
it was not until 1977 and 'a sharp intake of breath ' that he found his first successful solo vehicle.you can see the title sequence ( along with two brief excerpts in german ! )
for this series on youtube .
unfortunately , that is all you can see .
jason will not permit his early starring shows either to be repeated or released on d.v.d .
a great shame .
for the moment , however , edgar briggs ' life will have to remain top secret.coda : i have seen a number of episodes recently and i 'm pleased to say it stands up incredibly well .