in the '60's/'70 's , david jason was renowned for his many supporting roles in television comedies such as 'do not adjust your set ! '
, 'hark at barker ' and the 'doctor ' series .
it was in 1974 that he landed his first leading role , in london weekend television 's 'the top secret life of edgar briggs ' , written by richard laing & bernard mckenna.edgar briggs is a secret agent of the 's.i.s ' ( 'secret intelligence service ' ) .
he genuinely tries to do his job well but always seems to mess things up .
astonishingly enough , though , he always succeeds in getting to the bottom of cases , much to the amazement of his colleagues- 'buxton ' ( michael stainton ) , 'spencer ' ( mark eden ) and 'cathy ' ( the lovely elisabeth counsell ) , all of which answer to 'the commander ' ( noel coleman ) .briggs is married to 'jennifer ' ( barbara angell ) , a woman who , much like michele dotrice 's 'betty ' from 'some mother 's do 'ave 'em ! '
, has the patience of a saint and stands by her hare-brained ( but well-meaning ) husband , no matter what.like 'some mother 's do 'ave 'em ' and 'the baldy man ' , 't.t.s.l.o.e.b ' was laced completely with slapstick .
each episode saw jason perform stunts such as plummeting from a high window sill or falling from the top of a ladder while decorating his flat .
it was 'custard pie in the face ' stuff really .
'edgar briggs ' was not a big hit , due to poor scheduling from i.t.v .
a shame as it was an amusing and enjoyable show , well served by its star and the fine support cast .
the leading man , though , did not seem to enjoy the experience of the show .
david jason vetoed repeat screenings of the show because he felt his acting in it was non-refined .
granted , the david jason who played 'del boy ' , 'inspector frost ' and 'pop larkin ' is way different to the one that played briggs but by no means was his acting unrefined .
most actors would have turned briggs into a ridiculous caricature but jason 's performance made briggs a credible , realistic figure .
odd perhaps , but not unimaginable.jason 's next vehicle was 'lucky feller ' , in which he played mummy 's boy 'shorty mempstead ' .
it too failed to make the ratings .
his lucky break came in the shape of a.t.v 's 'a sharp intake of breath ' , in which he played walking disaster area 'peter barnes ' for four series between 1977-1981. so , while not outstanding as such , 'briggs ' is an easy and worthwhile watch .
nice 'james bond ' style theme tune , too !