this is a classic war movie .
one of the best , a stark image fest of flashing lights , harrowing dark backgrounds and helicopter blades morphing into ceiling fans .
a star-studded spectacle of immense power.martin sheen is a mercenary sent up river to assassinate the general gone astray , a sadistic dictator played beyond belief by the great marlon brando .
also along for the ride are , robert duvall as an over the top di with a penchant for `` napalm in the morning '' or at least the smell of it .
dennis hopper is an edgy photojournalist with a view slanted views about the war and about his leader .
also in this amazing film you 'll see up and coming stars such as laurence fishburne , r. lee ermey , sam bottoms , albert hall and keep an eye out for harrison ford too ... behind the lens is francis ford coppolla delivering a film with maybe more intensity and drama than the acclaimed godfather films , he highlights war in it 's most basic form , which for the most part is something you ca n't see , you can only feel it , as the boat carries on up river the feeling of the war tightening in is quite unbearable .
the feeling of this is a rather claustrophobic feeling and really makes for unusual moods from the viewers .
honestly no films has ever made me feel like that.criticism is hard to find .
the biggest qualm from some is that brando earned tons of money for a ten minute role , but in all fairness this is unjustified .
it was money well earned , a role that physically restricted him , being at the time an unwell man , and a role that he really made his own .
i ca n't picture anyone better for the role .
and if you get the apocalypse now redux version , there 's some extra bits of the great man , and i think the redux does make the film miles better.final impressions are that if you are lucky to get the redux version then you will be blessed with a completely satisfying film with a cool 49 minutes extra footage .
if not , then still you wo n't be disappointed , this film is up there with the best , and deserves some great recognition , and a firm place as one of the top 50 films ever made ...