it 's that film that loads of people hail as a classic - apocalypse now , now a re-cut , re-up , redux 22 years after it 's original release.the film is loosely based on conrad 's heart of darkness , it 's main plot ( if it has one ) being capt .
willard 's journey on a naval boat through the vietnam conflict on his way to terminate a rogue colonel .
( colonel kurtz ) we see the characters and situations he meets , and he tells the colonel 's story along the way.my initial feelings towards the film is that it 's not particularly gripping at times , especially early on , but at least a good dose of comedy is put in , in the form of surfing fanatic col. kilgore .
as the film progresses however , a good deal of tension is built up with willard 's reading through various reports on col. kurtz until the end is in sight , when everything comes together and the atmosphere of the film reaches an incredible level and holds it there until the end.the usual aspects everyone looks for in a decent film are all of a good standard .
cinematography in particular stands out as exceptional , and i found the performances of martin sheen , marlon brando , robert duvall and frederic forrest to all be worthy of a special mention .
the score i found initially sounded out of place , but as the film progressed ... i 'm not entirely sure if it did actually get better , or it fitted better , or if it had just grown on me , but by the end of the film i was thoroughly enjoying it.this is the second time i have seen the redux version , ( i have seen the original around four times ) i 'll say now that the first time i saw it i was disappointed .
i was expecting a `` classic '' film , with lots of war .
the fact that willard got the mission at the beginning of the film and did n't carry it out until the end had me bored because all of the character interaction on the way that is the film seemed unnecessary .
this is due to the fact that the plot is not entirely defined ( as the focus is more on the character and the journey more than the plot ) , in most cases a second viewing is needed to appreciate the film fully ( as with all films that are more character than plot based ) , as the second time around , you know where the plot is going .
i had a similar experience with it 's a wonderful life , which is now one of my favourite films.with the big four vietnam films , apocalypse now wins over the rest on atmosphere , but lacks the action and involvement of platoon , the emotional intensity of the deer hunter , and can not really be compared to full metal jacket ( probably my favourite of the four ) .
apocalypse now is a great piece of work , especially towards the end where it becomes staggering , and is to be recommended for anyone who enjoys a good character based film and does n't mind some casual violence .