i decided i need to lengthen up my review for my all time favorite film .
unlike other war films that focus on the event , apocalypse now takes the viewer into a psychological head trip .
the sheer surrealism makes the body uncomfortable , yet you ca n't lay your eyes off of it .
based off of joseph conrad 's heart of darkness , apocalypse now slowly descends its protagonist , willard ( martin sheen ) into madness , most likely the same way kurtz plunged into insanity .
the production of this film is notorious for its delays provided by the monsoon season and for brando 's unprepared performance ( he read his lines from cue cards ) .
there is a documentary titled apocalypse now : a filmmakers apocalypse which shows the hell everyone went through in making this.the opening sequence is one of the most famous and popular in any film .
as the blade of the helicopters are heard in slow motion and napalm is dropped in the trees , the song `` the end '' by the doors can be heard .
the next shot is of willard in his bed with the fan on , so the noise of the helicopter coincides with the fan .
we are informed that he does special missions for the military , mostly assassinations .
when his next mission is given to him , he is baffled .
`` charging a man with murder here is like giving a speeding ticket in the indy 500 . ''
the man he has to kill was a respected colonel that has gone insane and isolated himself along with tribes people .
kurtz is ordering atrocious acts that are carried out by these people and he must me stopped .
willard does not go alone however .
he is carried on a boat with several soldiers and they come across several battles .
along the way , they meet lieutenant colonel bill kilgore `` hoorah '' about the war .
willard ponders that if kilgore is that crazy , what could kurtz be like .
there are many scenes that portray willards plunge into insanity : the tiger attack , the slaughter of innocent vietnamese , the nonstop rain , the piled dead bodies scattered about , and the deaths of his crew members .
when he reaches the kurtz compound , he is greeted by the village people and a hippie photojournalist ( dennis hopper ) .
instead of assassinating kurtz right away , willard begins talking with him and his conscience begins to doubt what he should do .
kurtz , on the other hand wants to die .
he is tired of the war and wants to go down as a soldier .
willard kills him with a machete while in unison , a buffalo is sacrificed with several machetes by the people .
once they realize their leader has been slain , instead of killing willard , they hail him as their new king .
willard rejects the offer and leaves them.the cinematography here is absolutely breathtaking .
the colors are grain free , something that is rare in older movies .
i can watch it muted and admire the beauty of the scenery.the acting ensemble is terrific , with everyone playing their parts well .
many criticize brando for some reason , but i think he nails his role as a depressed lunatic who is beaten up by the war.the soundtrack and the score are haunting , and provide the mood for the film .
i am wondering what instrument they used in that guitar-like sound when the credits roll ?
there have been many parodies of this film , but my favorite quote comes from marge simpson when she explains to homer why a character with the same name on a police show is behaving like an idiot : `` your character provides comic relief for the show , like um , marlon brando in apocalypse now . ''
those who have seen the movie know why this is hilarious .