even with all the cinema dealing with the trauma of the vietnam war ( jacob 's ladder , the deer hunter , apocalypse now , and taxi driver to an extent ) one feels that we do n't even know the half of what happened .
even contemplating the horror feels inhuman .
and a progression - or retreat ?
- to the inhumanity that it necessitates is a key part of apocalypse now , coppola 's greatest and one of the most important films ever made .
loosely based on joseph conrad 's 1902 classic , `` heart of darkness '' which chronicles the loss of sanity and corruption of morality that comes with distance from civilization - a surfacing of a bestial nature , as it were , a la lord of the flies - it brings the story of a physical and psychological journey to vietnam .
the story is of willard , a general commissioned on a special mission to cambodia after his first tour of duty in vietnam is served .
willard at the beginning of the film is stuck in saigon , psychologically unable to go back home - eerily echoing nicky in the deer hunter .
so he is contacted : his mission is to assassinate a renegade green beret who has isolated himself in a remote outpost on the nung river , and who has purportedly gone completely insane - worshiped like a god by the natives , and killing indiscriminately .
this man 's name is colonel kurtz , played by marlon brando in the second best role of his career ( the best being stanley kowalski in a streetcar named desire ) .
as willard journeys upriver in an army boat with some soldiers accompanying , his witnessing the horrors and the insanity - and the overwhelming pointlessness of it all - leads to an eerie sympathy and identification with kurtz before they even meet .
by the time they do , kurtz 's methods do n't really seem as wrong or as they should , and they certainly do n't seem too unusual or out-of-place .
apocalypse - a place beyond morality , the outpost on the end of the world .
the loss of civilization , the loss of judgement , of self .
kurtz 's monologue about an atrocity he witnessed as a green beret , and his later revelation , is one of the most chilling and well-delivered speeches in cinema history .
the film is about trauma , about the human spirit and its breaking point - here , it 's a lot like the deer hunter , and just as good .
apocalypse , however , takes the boundaries of what we can endure to a global level - coppola 's sweeping footage of the humid , murky jungles of cambodia and an opening sequence of helicopters amid exploding forests and an orange sky - set to an oddly fitting doors soundtrack - as well as chilling scenes on the river and of an air raid on a village with wagner blasting from speakers ( a scene which has gone down as one of the most chilling , darkly humorous , and strikingly pointless war scenes ever ) - this all contributes to the sense of apocalypse - the end of the world - and not at some distant point in the future , but apocalypse now and forever .
the deer hunter is much more up close and personal , you can even tell by the title , and shows the totalling effect trauma has on the individual psyche , the breaking down of the human soul , and its ability to either surrender completely to forces of darkness , or to limp on .
this is why both films are equal - they are two parts of the same thing .
in `` heart of darkness '' , kurtz is shown as conflicted between morality ( civilization ) and his inner savage .
in apocalypse now , kurtz has left all conflict behind .
he is beyond good and evil .
he has let go of morality like a drowning man lets go of a saving hand in the moments before his death .
kurtz indeed is only waiting for death , quoting t. s. eliot in his temple to himself , lost in the jungle .
his last words , and the words echoed at the end of the movie , are , `` the horror ... the horror . ''
he is referring to the infinite void of existence , of the human psyche , and to the pitch black emptiness within his own mind , where atrocities are born again .
it is impossible to express in words the experience one goes through watching this film - the experience , in short , that willard experiences on his journey .
the end part , at the outpost , almost in fact comparable to its brother scene in the deer hunter , is one of the most deeply , calmly , and seductively disturbing things i 've ever seen .