spoilers .
this review has been edited due to word limit.`the horror .
the horror . '
marlon brando , apocalypse now ( 1979 ) and apocalypse now redux ( 2001 ) the sentence which is as famous as `here 's looking at you , kid , ' or `are you talkin ' to me ? '
or `may the force be with you , ' or `i 'll be back , ' means a little more than some one-liners .
when it is spoken it lingers in the air with an importance and meaning that does not go unnoticed .
what might drive some viewers nuts is that they may never find an answer to the horror unless they re-watch the film and try to pay close observation to every single frame.what , exactly , does this line of dialogue mean ?
the horror spoken of is the reality of war .
the reality of moral men being so easily corrupted that they turn on their inborn instincts and kill fellow beings without any sign of guilt .
when capt .
willard ( martin sheen ) stands before the dying col. kurtz ( marlon brando ) at the end of the film , `the horror.the horror . '
is the realization of willard 's corruptness .
he has mercilessly killed a man in cold blood as part of his assignment .
this is n't a typical hollywood ending .
in most cases a character gains something , whether it be emotionally , physically , mentally or all three .
but willard both gains and loses .
he gains the knowledge that he has lost his morals .
and that is a shocking ending.`apocalypse now ' is francis ford coppola 's tribute to the artistic side of filmmaking .
this film is wholly different from `the godfather . '
it is hallucinogenic , visually dazzling , and an ode to the guilty side of human nature .
at first it seems realistic , and then it becomes strange , and then symbolic , and , by the end , original in its own unique perspective of the spiritual side of warfare .
this is not as much a film about the vietnam war as it is a film about the war within us.at first it does appear to be another war film .
captain willard ( sheen ) is assigned by an army lieutenant ( a young harrison ford ) to assassinate a renegade american colonel named kurtz ( brando ) , who is hiding out somewhere in vietnam with a hoard of troops who more or less act as his slaves.willard carries out his mission `with extreme prejudice , ' heading out on a boat along with four soldiers , including the boat captain , chief ( albert hall ) , chef ( frederic forest ) , and a very young `larry ' fishburne ( who later went on to appear as morpheus in `the matrix ' ) .
`` apocalypse now '' is in a many ways a modern update of homer 's odyssey .
as our main character , willard , carries on his journey , he meets an array of original and strange characters , including lt. col. kilgore ( robert duvall ) , who has a strange fetish for surfing , and a stoned photographer ( dennis hopper ) , whose lively gestures and mannerisms can be compared to those of the very much lesser jeremy davies in `` the million dollar hotel , '' one of the worst films i have ever seen .
davies failed to make any connection with an audience ; hopper does .
he is like the poetic vibe between willard and kurtz ; he is like an interpreter going back and forth and speaking in foreign languages .
in this case , he is translating kurtz to willard , although i 'm not so sure kurtz needs a translation of willard.many films are lucky enough to have one or two memorable scenes or lines .
`` apocalypse now '' has many .
kilgore descending upon a vietnam village playing wagner 's `` ride of the valkyries '' remains one of the most remembered scenes in all of film history .
there is sharpness to it , a brutality to it , an ironic tone to it , and also a sense of playfulness .
when kilgore kneels down on that beach and says , `i love the smell of napalm in the morning.it smells like victory , ' we all crack a smile.i wo n't lie to you : `apocalypse now ' is a strange film .
it is n't exactly the easiest thing to analyze .
the end may frustrate some viewers if they do n't understand marlon brando 's significant speeches .
but what it all comes down to , what really matters , is that this film is about the dark nature of the human psyche .
the horror is the realization of war and its effects , not the war itself .
kurtz says , `you have a right to kill me .
but you have no right to judge me . '
brando 's character , kurtz , is left to the audience to judge .
to many na誰ve viewers he may appear as a crazy loon whose power got to his head .
but that is n't what francis ford coppola is trying to get across .
by fighting in vietnam , kurtz has realized just how great he had it , and how bad some others had it .
by walking through devastated villages he eventually comes to realize that we are the na誰ve ones , living our lives in a fool 's paradise .
we are totally na誰ve to our surroundings and possible misfortunes until they hit .
by seeing how unlucky some vietnamese are , kurtz realizes just how easily he could be struck by something .
just how easily he could end up like the people around him .
and he also realizes that the people who did this are people who have abandoned their morals and left them at the door .
many people think the horror is one thing .
it is two .
for kurtz , the horror is the reality of how na誰ve he was and the reality of the war 's impact upon men .
and after willard murders kurtz , and hears kurtz 's dying words , he realizes it too .
he realizes the effects of war .
to see so many soldiers with no sense of right or wrong makes him realize the horror of what war can do to a man .
and what it has done to him .
the horror.5/5 stars -