as i peruse through the hundreds of comments that loyal readers of the imdb have posted on this film , i find it very interesting how few , '' middle of the road '' comments there are .
everyone either loves it , or they hate it .
having seen apocalypse now approximately 30 times , and having recently dissected it on dvd ( how did we ever live without those magical digital machines ?
?
?
?
? )
, i can say without hesitation that i am one of those who have a very special place in my heart for this film .
`` why would you like a film that 's so confusing ? ''
ask many of my associates .
the answer is this : forget the war , forget the brutality ... .this is a classic story of society protecting itself from those that refuse to fall in line with the status quo .
brando represents the individual that has his own way of getting the job done .
they ( big brother ) sent him out to do the job , he does it too well , without adhering to the accepted `` standards '' of death and destruction ( am i the only one who 's troubled by the fact that we have 'standards ' for death and destruction ?
?
?
? )
, so they send the `` conformity police '' out to eliminate the individual .
hmmmmmm ... .draw any parallels between this and things you see every day ?
with the deepest respect to mr. coppola , whom i believe is one of the best directors of all time , i think he transcended his original intent of the movie , and probably did n't even realize it until after the movie was released .
the subtle sub-text that permeates the entire movie has way too much to it to have been planned and portrayed ; instead , it seems to have 'grown ' itself , like some wild flower in the middle of a vegetable garden .
again i must reiterate : i think ff coppola did a bang-up job on this entire production , as did the cast and crew , but the sum of the movie exceeds the individual efforts ten-fold .
so if you have n't seen the movie , rent it , watch it , then watch it again , and maybe a few more times , and look for all the generic parallels to everyday life .
only then make a judgment on the quality of the film .
those of you that have seen it , watch it again with the mindset previously described .
i think you may just have a whole new appreciation for the film .
or maybe not !
no matter whether you love it or hate it , be sure and give credit to coppola for his masterful story-telling style !