my favourite movie of all time .
this was a flawed piece of work by coppola and seeing the documentary 'heart of darkness ' made it even more compelling .
coppola at this point was king of hollywood after making 'the godfather ' and 'godfatherii ' and had developed the ego necessary to even dare try to make a movie like 'apocalypse now ' .
through sheer arrogance he went to the phillipines with a partial script and thought he would know what he would do when he got there .
just as captain willard thought he would know what to do once he got to col. kurtz 's compound .
and just like willard , he did n't know what he was going to do once he got there .
this is such a masterpiece of american cinema , beautifully photographed and the river is such a perfect metaphor and backdrop for the story .
what i like most about 'apocalypse now ' is that it offers no answers or conclusions .
consequently , because of this open-endedness , it infuriates some viewers who like their movies to be much more obvious .
this movie defies categorization .
some call it a war movie which it is n't at all , really it is more of a personal study of man .
the best pic about vietnam is 'platoon ' in my opinion and if a viewer is seeking a retelling of the vietnam war go there first for answers .
coppola should be commended for his take on the bureaucracy of war which he conveys quite effectively with the meeting with gen.corman and lucas ( harrison ford ) and the playmate review .
the sheer audacity of kilgore makes him an unforgettable character and the dawn attack will always be a hollywood classic.it is an almost psychedelic cruise to a very surreal ending which makes it a movie not accessible to everyone .
very challenging to watch but rewarding as well .
i could offer my explanations on each scene but that would be totally pointless .
this movie is intended for interpretation and contemplation as opposed to immediate gratification.a little footnote , definitely if your a first-time viewer of apocalypse now , watch the original version first , the 'redux ' version is , i think , more intended for the hardcore fan and is more of a curiosity than a 'new and improved ' version of the movie