i just watched the dresser this evening , having only seen it once before , about a dozen years ago.it 's not a `` big '' movie , and does n't try to make a big splash , but my god , the brilliance of the two leads leaves me just about speechless .
albert finney and tom courtenay are nothing less than amazing in this movie.the dresser is the story of sir , an aging shakespearean actor ( finney ) , and his dresser norman ( courtenay ) , sort of a valet , putting on a production of king lear during the blitz of london in world war ii .
these are two men , each dependent upon the other : sir is almost helpless without the aid of norman to cajole , wheedle , and bully him into getting onstage for his 227th performance of lear .
and norman lives his life vicariously through sir ; without sir to need him , he is nothing , or thinks he is , anyway.this is a character-driven film ; the plot is secondary to the interaction of the characters , and as such , it requires actors of the highest caliber to bring it to life .
finney , only 47 years old , is completely believable as a very old , very sick , petulant , bullying , but brilliant stage actor .
he hisses and fumes at his fellow actors even when they 're taking their bows !
and courtenay is no less convincing as the mincing dresser , who must sometimes act more as a mother than as a valet to his elderly employer .
employer is really the wrong term to use , though .
for although , technically their relationship is that of employer and employee , most of the time sir and norman act like nothing so much as an old married couple.yes , there are others in the cast of this movie , but there is no question that the true stars are finney , courtenay , and the marvelous script by ronald harwood .
that is not to say that there are n't other fine performances , most notably eileen atkins as the long-suffering stage manager madge .
there is a wonderful scene where sir and madge talk about old desires , old regrets , and what might have been.although it does n't get talked about these days , it is worth remembering that the dresser was nominated for five academy awards : best actor nominations for both finney and courtenay , best picture , best director ( peter yates ) , and best adapted screenplay.i had remembered this as being a good movie , but i was n't prepared to be as completely mesmerized as i was from beginning to end .
if you want to see an example of what great acting is all about , and be hugely entertained all the while , then i encourage you to see the dresser .