last night , i saw a peck on the cheek ( kannathil muthamittal with english subtitles ) .
oddly , it was 137 minutes long -- slightly longer than the time listed on imdb.at first , i found myself losing interest in this film because the rather confusing style of filming really lost me .
the context for what was occurring was missing and i am glad i stuck with it .
at the beginning , a young couple is married and shortly after the wedding , war breaks out in their native sri lanka and the lovers are separated .
months later , the wife is very pregnant and on board a refugee vessel heading to india .
at a refugee center , you see the lady about to give birth -- after which the titles to the film finally are revealed.the entire focus of the film then changes completely -- to a young girl who is about to turn 9 in madras , india .
you see her in her home and she talks to the camera about her life and family .
none of this seems that interesting or important and you wonder what is missing -- what about the lady who was about to give birth ?
my wife and i debated this and we finally guessed that this little girl was actually the child of the lady in the first part of the film .
somehow or another , she had been adopted and was talking about her life with mom and dad # 2 -- though she did not realize these people were not her biological parents.soon after this , the parents revealed themselves to be total idiots ( one of the complaints i had about the film ) , as they decided to tell this very young girl the truth about her parentage and tell it in a way that left the girl emotionally screwed up and confused .
despite a stupid decision and telling her in the worst way , the parents made up for this by agreeing to help her find her biological mother .
seeing the impact all this had on the girl and parents ( particularly the adoptive mother ) was impressive to watch and sure sparked my interest.unfortunately , sri lanka has been involved in a very , very long and brutal civil war with tamilese militants , off and on , for three decades .
the family 's decision to look for the mom back in sri lanka was indeed noble , but also a bit stupid at times -- as they took so many risks and nearly got killed again and again by just blindly jumping into the middle of a war !
this was all exciting and captivating but also left me wondering about the sanity of the adoptive parents -- first you tell her she is n't your biological child and now you take her in the middle of a war zone !
!
!
sure , the kid really wanted to meet her biological mother , but this really was stupid in hind sight .
if it were me , i might have been tempted to pay an unemployed actress to play the part and fool the kid -- thus avoiding being in the middle of a war !
despite my complaints , the film was lovely to watch and was very rewarding .
far from perfect , it sure hits an emotional home run .
also , while i expected this because i have seen several indian films , many westerners will be a bit surprised by the vivid songs that seem to come out of no where -- this is standard in most films from india -- including those made in bollywood ( bombay ) and tamilwood/kollywood ( madras ) .