it pays to watch reader 's digest .
or time , if it was the original source of the article that served as a supposed inspiration to mani ratnam to make this masterpiece .
based on a true story of an adopted girl who goes in search of her biological parents , mr. ratnam paints a classic that rivets as much as it rebukes , cherishes as much as it chastens and preaches as much as it practises.where does one start ?
the foreboding gloom that precedes fresh strife in northern sri lanka ?
the chaotic household of a family headed by a firebrand engineer-author and 3 adorably naughty children ?
or that murky region where reality crosses the point of providing a comfortable existence and becomes a monster of incredulous and sinister events and ideologies ?
whichever way one looks at it , this film is worth being in your collection , if you happen to like mani ratnam 's compelling dramas.mr .
ratnam is a past master in blending fictional tales within real life incidents and in this film , he oozes class in adapting two real-life stories into one .
i will not go into the story as it is better seen than read .
but , what i will dwell upon is the impact it had upon me and why , for all the war-mongering that happens in this world , it can not destroy that simple yet inexhaustible force called hope.innocence , in its purity , can not fathom the complex desires of adult decadence and greed .
nor does it recognize perils when it is accompanied by the fierce determination to seek what it wants .
it is an innocence of such nature that drives amudha to seek her biological parents , despite warnings that they could be lost in the cauldron of civil war .
having survived a terrorizing experience of conversing with a physically challenged man only to realize that he is a more lethal entity in disguise , amudha sticks to her cause in a manner that tears down her well-wishers ' resistance .
and finally , when the twain do meet , mother and daughter , the reunion is so taut with emotion that even the temperamental adoptive father is reduced to tears .
aided by a coruscating background score from a r rahman , the scene that follows is poignant to melt even the stoniest of hearts : a list of questions that amudha has to ask her biological mother .
in a culmination as dramatic as the sequence of incidents leading to it , a child discovers its mother , alive in body but lost in spirit .
with the crushing realization that she has no hope of staying with the one who bore her , amudha does to her adoptive mother what this film 's title means : a peck on the cheek.as for the cast , the trail is clearly blazed by the brilliant ps keerthana .
mr. ratnam has a gift of extracting spectacular performances from little-known child artistes , but this should take nothing away from keerthana for an award-winning performance .
with an able supporting cast of madhavan ( thiru ) , simran ( indira ) and the stupendous nandita das ( shyama ) , she embellishes the scenes in almost every frame she is in .
the music may be not as memorable as other rahman offerings but that still did n't stop him from garnering another national award for the best music direction .
`` vellai pookal '' is as much an ode for the need to cherish human life as it is for nature .
the dialogues are top-class ( sample the touching exchange amudha and indira have on the swing , shortly after the revelation that she is not indira 's biological daughter ) and the cinematography , superb.this film is a clear statement to drop arms as much as it is to respect human life and expressions .
do not judge it as a lesson in film-making ; you will only lose out on experiencing one of the very best from the mani ratnam-a r rahman stable .