i finally snagged a copy of kannathil muthamittal through netflix and spent new yera 's eve watching an amazing drama unfold .
it began with shyama ( a winsome nandita das ) getting married to dhileepan in the backwaters of sri lanka and then a war takes over their romance .
shyama has to flee to india and is in a refugee camp as she gives birth to a child .
several years later we see amudha , a playful well-loved child ( p. s. keerthana ) , who is the darling ( or burden ) of teachers , parents and fellow schoolmates alike , in a very how to solve a problem like maria sequence .
on her birthday she is told by her parents thiru ( madhavan ) and indra ( simran ) that she is not their biological child , she was adopted .
this tilts her confident love-filled world and she constantly dwells on why her birth mother left her .
several attempts at truancy later the adoptive parents take her to sri lanka to try to find her birth mother .
the country is torn asunder by a raging civil war and the trio are inevitably caught up in the mess .
but this also leads to their meeting the new shyama - one who finally is confronted by amudha and asked why she abandoned her daughter.the story of a child who has to grapple with the fact that she was abandoned at birth , her obsessive drive to reconnect with her birth mother , the unconditional love of the adoptive parents , the demons that drive the birth mother , the normalcy of chennai and the horrors of terrorism ravaged sri lanka - mani ratnam made a masterful film that blended many ingredients into a saga that is soul stirring .
ar rahman 's music beautifully complements the magical and the poignant moments in the film .
the film has excellent performances from madhavan , nandita das , simran and an absolute stunner role as amudha - the abandoned one - done by the child artiste p. s. keerthana .
this performance won her a national award.the cinematography is visual poetry - each frame is beautifully crafted and breathtakingly shot .
i am intrigued by the connection mani ratnam has with terrorism , love and obsessions .
i think his exploration of these subjects is absolutely outstanding .
mahadevan 's character was quite unique - his passion and idealism did not make him selfish , rather was well matched with how much he cared for the little girl .
his one liners were hilarious .
the mother played by simran was also quite multi-dimensional - she was idealistic , loved the adopted daughter but also worried about her biological kids .
the shock , angst , and obsession of the child amudha was outstandingly portrayed by p. s. keerthana .
her wide accusing eyes did most of the talking .
in fact the enigmatic characters were those of nandita das , and her husband .
perhaps mani deliberately made them mysterious so as to not give us overt ideas of why they were the way they were - the enigma of why a terrorist becomes what he or she becomes .
it also kept him from being judgmental - this was another conflict in which he took no sides but merely reported while showing the human tragedy.kannathil muthamittal is visual poetry and a soul stirring drama - i rarely weep in the movies , but this one left me moist eyed and a little heartsick .
this is a beautiful film - a treasure and a keeper if you can find a copy ; beg borrow or steal one today and watch the film !