in sri lanka , a country divided by religion and language , the civil war between the pro-sinhalese government and the liberation tigers of tamil eelam ( ltte ) , a separatist organization , has claimed an estimated 68,000 lives since 1983. human rights groups have said that , as a result of the war , more than one million people have been displaced , homeless or living in camps .
the impact on children and families caught in the conflict is sensitively dramatized by acclaimed tamil director mani ratnam in his 2002 film a peck on the cheek , winner of several awards at the national film awards in india .
while the civil war is merely a backdrop for the story of a young girl 's voyage of discovery , the human cost of war is made quite clear and ratnam gives the fighting a universal context , pointing the finger at global arms traffickers as the source of wrongdoing.beautifully photographed in southern india by cinematographer ravi k chandran in a setting mirroring the terrain of sri lanka , the film tells a moving story about an adopted 9-year old girl who sets out to find her real mother in the middle of the fighting in sri lanka .
played with deep feeling and expressiveness by p.s .
keerthana in a memorable performance , amudha is brought up by a loving middle class family with two younger brothers after her natural parents shyama ( nandita das ) and dileepan ( j.d .
chakravarthi ) were forced to flee when the fighting broke out , leaving her in a red cross camp .
in a loving flashback , we see amudha 's adoptive parents , father thiru ( madhavan ) a prominent tamil writer , and mother indra ( simran ) a tv personality , marry to facilitate their adoption of the darker-skinned little girl.young amudha has no idea that she is adopted until it is sprung upon her abruptly on her ninth birthday , according to the parents ' prior agreement .
while she is playing , thiru tells her almost in a matter of fact tone that `` you are not our daughter '' and the response is predictable .
distraught , she questions who her father was , what her mother 's name was , why she gave her up , and so forth but few answers are forthcoming .
amudha runs away several times until her parents agree to go to sri lanka to help her find her true mother , now a fighter for the tamil separatists .
the family 's immersion in the reality of the civil war leads to some traumatic moments and difficult decisions , handled mostly with skill by ratnam , though a sequence where the family was caught in a crossfire felt amateurish.a peck on the cheek is of course a bollywood-style film and that means tons of music and melodrama .
the melodrama did not get in the way because of the strong performances by the lead actors ; however , i found the musical dramatizations of songs by a. r. rahman counter to the mood of the film with their slick , high production techniques and fast-paced music video-style editing .
yet the compelling nature of the story and the honesty in which it is told transcend the film 's limitations .
tamil cinema has been criticized by many , even within the country as being too clichéd and commercial , yet a peck on the cheek is both a film of entertainment and one that tackles serious issues .
that it successfully straddles the line between art and commerce is not a rejection but a tribute .