reanhauer ( bill roy ) is the leader of a desert-dwelling cult who tries to resurrect one of his people , only to have a heart attack himself !
he ends up dying on an operating table , and for the sake of revenge , his spirit takes over the body of the title character ( jill jacobson ) , who then proceeds to go about hacking and slashing until her fellow nurses learn what needs to be done to exorcise the demon.while i know enough about the directors ' filmography to know that it primarily consists of outright schlock , `` nurse sherri '' is really not all that bad .
sure , it 's clear that this was very low-budget stuff , yet all that i found egregiously cheesy about it were the visual effects .
the acting is not as bad as one might expect , either.there are two different versions available of this on dvd .
a much more sex-oriented version featuring bountiful amounts of t & a is the original cut , with such hilariously silly vignettes as the victim and and her love interest sharing their `` strangest sex '' moments , including one involving fellatio during a college lecture !
the movie would then be re-cut for theatrical version with the horror elements emphasized more strongly .
some scenes are dropped with new ones added ( with stevens , the role played by j.c. wells , expanded ) .
the movies ' most memorable sequence in this cut is a scene in a foundry , and it works quite well .
this cut of the movie is more interesting overall ; i would recommend that a viewer see them both and compare them.both versions hit their stride in the final third , and benefit from a marvelously scene-stealing performance from bill roy as the crazed reanhauer , and a moody climax set in a graveyard ( although actually filmed in adamsons ' backyard ! )
.
marilyn joi is also worth mentioning as the cute nurse who is attracted to football player turned patient marcus washington ( prentiss moulden ) , who 's lost his eyes in a car accident , and who incidentally is key to resolving the story with his knowledge of voodoo rituals .
the movie also makes amusing use of music from composer harry lubins ' personal collection , including compositions for such tv series as 'one step beyond ' and 'the outer limits ' .
`` nurse sherri '' ( known by more alternate titles ( including `` beyond the living '' and `` hospital of terror '' ) than any other adamson movie ) is actually fairly entertaining low-budget fare .
i ended up having a good time watching it.7/10