*this comment will probably have spoilers !
!
i checked the spoilers box just in case but it might not have spoilers , but be aware anyways if i say something that you might consider a spoiler and i do n't !
* wow ... best game since super mario 64. i got this game the first day it came out , and before i got it , i went on some gaming websites to look at its ratings ( yes , they already reviewed it before it came out ) , and i was shocked .
i was expecting something like sunshine because lately all the mario games have kind of been getting worse and worse .
but this one totally beat the other games .
the scores on this game even beat halo 3 !
it 's simply amazing.story : not the best , mario games are never known for their plots , and this one is n't really much of a difference .
bowser once again kidnaps peach but this time invades the mushroom kingdom on a festival celebrated once every century and gets a flying saucer and it shoots lasers on the ground and then they put anchors inside the ground and rip off the castle and its foundation into outer space.graphics : absolutely gorgeous , the best graphics on wii so far .
the water effects are really nice too , if you ever see the water , it looks so real because the effects they put in it.music : simply amazing , the music in this game is orchestrated .
not all of it , but even the ones that are n't orchestrated still sound very nice.gameplay : very entertaining , keeps you wanting to play more and more , and for me , since usually i tend to be very frustrated with games if i die a lot , i mean , i 'm definitely not the only one , but this game for me did n't have that a lot .
now it still kind of did , but not to the point like mario 64 where i totally go crazy and end up turning off the game because it made me mad , this one never did that.difficulty : there are two types of difficulty , because you can just technically beat the game with just 60 stars , which i think is kind of easy , but to beat the game 100 % , you have to get 120 , like always , and that quest is way harder , but at the same time still very fun.length : good length , definitely not too short .
it took me around 15-16 hours to beat it with just 60 stars , but 120 took me more like 45-50 hours .
now i did n't play it constantly that much , i played first a lot one day , then the next couple of days just a couple hours each day , then the next two days i played it all day .
to me though , i think the quest for 60 stars was a tiny bit short , so if you want a long game , i suggest getting all of them.presentation : now , the cinematic scenes in this movie are superb .
the way they are , it just looks so much like something i would see in the theaters .
they are hands down the best cinematic scenes on any mario game so far.overall : this game is definitely a great game , and i advise you to not wait until christmas , get it as soon as possible .
this game also is a good mixture of old and new , you 'll have some sidescroller levels where you move just side to side , or up and down because they 'll change on gravity , but even the music has some old classics in it .
so this game seems to be like a masterpiece .
to me , it 's my favorite mario game of all time , but others may disagree .
but it 's still a great game .
i recommend every gamer who wants to have fun in a game to get this .