i have been a mario fan for as long as i can remember , i have very fond memories of playing super mario world as a kid , this game has brought back many of those memories while adding something new .
super mario galaxy is the latest installment in the amazing mario franchise .
there is much very different about this game from any other mario before it , while still keeping intact the greatest elements of mario , the first noticeable difference is that the story takes place in space.the story begins much like any other mario game , mario receives a letter from princess peach inviting him to a celebration at her castle in the mushroom kingdom .
upon arriving at peach 's castle mario finds bowser and his son ( bowser jr. ) attacking the castle with their airships .
bowser kidnaps princess peach and then lifts her castle up into space .
in the midst of the castle being lifted into space mario falls off and lands on an unknown planet .
mario is found by a talking star named luma and is taken back to the luma 's home , a floating space station , here mario meets many other lumas and also meets their leader , a woman named rosalina .
rosalina tells mario that bowser has taken away the space station 's power stars and scattered them across the universe , it is up to mario to help the lumas find them and save peach , thus the adventure begins.the way you play the game is by flying from the space station to other galaxies , each galaxy consists of multiple planets that mario travels amongst in levels via these shooting stars to retrieve the power stars .
mario can at many times walk all the way around planets without losing gravity , some planets are small and others are big , many planets are similar to classic mario environments .
the best thing about the game are the controls , all of the stuff like jumping and such is still the same , but the wiimote is used in many unique ways in this game .
you shake the remote mario will perform a spin that is used as the primary attack in the game , and it will as well activate the shooting stars .
you can also point the remote at the screen and use the pointer to fire star bits at enemies or objects in the environment .
then there is the graphics , these are by far the best graphics on the wii , it is just so hard to describe how great this game looks , you could probably almost say it looks as good as some 360 games.my only minor gripes is that the going upside down effect takes some getting used to , and also the story is pretty weak .
the worst part is that you lose all of your lives when you turn off the game , no matter how many you had when you last quit you restart at 4 lives .
still these minor problems aside it 's a superb game that is highly entertaining and is very challenging .
this is the type of game that we 've been waiting for on the wii.a perfect 10 out of 10 !