i saw what i believe to be the best australian film of the year so far , jon hewitt 's acolytes.acolytes is a stylish thriller with a killer premise .
get this two bullied and molested teens discover a local serial killer in their suburb and then set about blackmailing him to kill the bully who molested them .
hewitt has picked a top notch cast including excellent new comers sebastian gregory , josua payne and hanna mangan lawrence to play the teens .
add to that three , yes , thats right three great psycho 's !
lead by joel edgerton in an outstanding performance of serial killer du jour , belinda mcclory his deranged spouse and michael dorman as the teen raping bully , with swastika tattoos .
once you add these teens and these menacing adults , all hell breaks loose hewitt has crafted a balls to the wall serial thriller thats damn original and accomplished .
you can see the influence of larry clark and david lynch 's twin peaks but hewitt makes it all his own , in a qld suburban back water , always ringing with the drones of emptiness .
the script by shayne armstong , shane krouse and hewitt is tight.if marketed correctly this film could be a break out hit with teens .
the next wolf creek ?
it could well be .
it makes all the right moves .
the teens are real ala larry clark .
they do n't suck and have an attached pc agenda , they are non communicative , good looking and hip .
the killers are dark with real menace .
joel edgerton steals his scenes as the mild mannered local ted bundy , who sports a butterfly on his 4wd spare ala john fowles the collector .
dorman 's petrol head rapist pours on the menace that tops suburban mayhem and provides a creepy thug who you ca n't wait to see buy the farm.the film is fast paced , tough and brutal .
not only that , it displays a confidence and directorial mastery from hewitt that is surely to win him an if or afi nomination , if not award !
its nuanced and poetic mise en scene , brilliant sound design , excellent cinematography and tight structure mark it as clearly one of the best directed oz features i have seen so far this year.the film leaves you shaken , thinking and unsettled .
its a truly great edition to the return to genre going on in australian cinema at present .
it will surely garner the interest of hollywood .
oh , and did i mention it got into toronto ?
what other oz feature films can say that much ?
the world should get ready for a new auteur , jon hewitt .