one of chaplin 's longest films up to that point , burlesque on carmen is a clever and surprisingly complex parody of what was then `` prosper merimee 's '' well-known story about `` carmen . ''
i was a little confused about the difference between the imdb 's listing of the 1915 burlesque on carmen and the 1916 version .
based on the running time i assume that it was the 1915 version that i saw , since the 1916 one is a good 20 minutes longer , and from what i 've read , those are 20 unnecessary and unimpressive minutes .
from the very beginning , it 's clear that burlesque on carmen is one of chaplin 's most complex and ambitious efforts to date , starting off with a long back story , told through inter-titles , about the tragic love story of carmen .
carmen is sent by a band of gypsies ( `` a band who put the gyp in gypsy .
`` ) , to seduce a spanish officer so they can pull off their smuggling operation .
it 's a clever , chaplinesque band of criminals , the leader of whom , lillas pastia , has `` spent 50 years learning to steal , thinking he might be offered a job in politics . ''
on a side note , i 've seen some almost misogynistic messages and jokes in some of chaplin 's earlier work , but probably none quite as overt as in this one .
near the beginning of the movie , as the band of gypsies are traveling , there is a scene where the mules and women are loading , and an inter-title explains that `` the mules are the ones with long ears . ''
in case you could n't tell , i guess .
chaplin plays the part of don jose , the hapless officer who is to be seduced by carmen .
he is described as `` a brave soldier and lover of women . ''
not exactly a stretch for chaplin who removed any doubt about his ability to play a convincing comic soldier a few years later in the brilliant shoulder arms .
and of course , he did n't have to act about being a lover of women.what is different here , of course , is his polished military uniform and straight-backed disciplinary manner , interspersed , of course , with some of his traditional slap-stick moves .
he strikes me as a little guy in a position of authority , struggling to maintain the respect of his subordinates by exerting a gruff , stolid exterior.soon carmen enters ( `` loved by all men under the age of 96 '' ) , and she immediately begins flirting with charlie .
i should mention that for a good majority of the movie , it is surprisingly faithful to the original story , which was full of jealousy and tragedy .
chaplin is strangely convincing as a jealous lover , able to evoke a jealous passion that i 've never seen from him .
there 's at least one scene where he is genuinely a little scary .
chaplin has some great sight gags in the movie , like a hilarious table dance and some classic sword fighting near the end .
and his boyish charm and the role of a soldier is also definitely a winning combination , although there is another peculiar stunt involving a group of men pushing a huge door back and forth that was n't very effective to begin with but just kept going on and on and on , probably about five times longer than it was worth .
although it was interesting that when it finally fell over it clearly was revealed as a movie prop .
i always appreciate such glimpses at the old movie sets.the end of the film is it 's strongest part .
it bears striking resemblance to romeo and juliet , but just when you think that chaplin is going to conduct a major thematic experiment by diverging distantly from his traditional style , there is a hilarious twist that is as vintage chaplin as anything i 've ever seen .
nice work !