being the second last of chaplin 's essanay films , carmen is a parody of cecil b. demille 's drama with the same title .
it stands as quite obvious that demille 's acknowledged film did n't impress the comedy king that much , which he later admitted in his autobiography.parodies were not a new experiment for chaplin .
he had done several of them already , namely his prehistoric past and his new job , and would continue to do so until the very end of his career in films ( for instance in a king in new york ) .chaplin does a very good portrayal of don josé , and edna purviance 's is very as good as carmen .
neither act as we are used to ; charlie is not the lovable tramp and edna is far from an innocent little woman , but that was not chaplin 's intentions , either .
a burlesque on carmen is a somewhat odd chaplin-film , very different , but includes good material nonetheless.the main story is , although very differently structured , as in the original drama .
don josé is very much in love with carmen , but is not alone in that field ; `` carmen , carmen , ( the ) beautiful carmen , ( is ) loved by all men under 96 , '' but he has the big advantage that he is an officer , and there we are ; this is the famous story about rivalry , love , greed and honor , seen from a humorous perspective .
thanks to chaplin 's and purviance 's performances , and to the wonderful , wonderful music by george bizet which i highly admire , this could actually have been a near-comedy masterpiece , it 's time taken into consideration .
it could have been .
but unfortunately , although it is a good pretty good comedy , i do n't feel it 's fair to blame people who claim that a burlesque of carmen is far from being a masterpiece .
but it 's important to keep in mind that this has nothing to do with any lack of talent , but rather a result of conflicts concerning business .
when chaplin refused to re-sign essanay contract after completing his last film for the company , police , they took revenge by editing back all the scenes chaplin originally had edited out from carmen .
thanks to this , the film is somewhat confusing and has several pointless scenes which are more annoying than funny , and the film turned out to be rather a ben turpin-feature -- turpin played remendados -- than a chaplin-short .
naturally , chaplin was in despair when he discovered what essanay had done , and had to stay in bed for several days.despite its obvious flaws , a burlesque of carmen is highly recommended to chaplin-fans and to admirers of beautiful music .