i was lucky enough for this film to come on tcm , so i had the opportunity to see it .
it 's rather hard to find , despite it being a hitchcock classic .
unfortunately , it also has its shortcomings , some of which hitchcock has repeated later .
first off , the ending is a little too neat and `` perfect '' .
in the last few scenes , until the last five minutes , there is an astounding amount of tension ; then , the five minutes just clears everything perfectly up ... very unsatisfying .
the ending is also overly dramatic , for a hitchcock film .
he is , was and always will be the master of suspense ... why would he stoop to something as low as a cheap action sequence for the ending ?
apart from the few shortcomings , the film is great .
the plot is excellent ; one of the best and most universal ever .
the theme ?
simple .
you meet a stranger .
a perfect stranger .
he offers to kill someone for you ... you know you have someone you want ( if nothing else , subconsciously ) dead .
the catch ?
he asks you to do the same for him ... will you accept this bizarre yet ingenious arrangement ?
you 're clear of suspicion , and so is he ... after all , neither of you knew the victim .
and you do n't know each other , either ... you 're just 'strangers on a train ' .
brilliant concept , and one that just about every single person can relate to .
the pacing is good , you never lose interest or patience .
the cinematography is good , but not nearly as good as it is in other , better hitchcock films .
the acting is flawless .
the characters are well-written , credible and realistic .
hitchcock uses some of the same elements that he often uses ; the dominating mother , the mothers boy , etc .
the film is very good , but it just feels a little watered down .
it did n't go that famous extra mile that would have made it great .
it stopped before crossing the line between what 's common and what 's daring .
that is the primary reason for the film failing to be great , but mainly remains good , with potential to be more than that .
the end leaves you unsatisfied and disappointed .
however , everything leading up to the end is very good , so the film still gets a deserving 8/10 .
good , but not great .
any fan of hitchcock should see it , as it is among his best ... somewhat far down on the list , but still there .
i recommend it to any fan of hitchcock .
8/10