i knew the premise of this film , and obviously i ca n't miss a good sounding film , especially from `` master of suspense '' director sir alfred hitchcock .
basically tennis champ guy haines ( farley granger ) meets eccentric stranger , bruno anthony ( robert walker ) on a train travelling from washington to new york .
bruno talks about a perfect murder , guy hates his wife , and bruno hates his father , so bruno `` suggests '' swapping murders .
guy obviously did n't take him seriously , until of course when guy 's wife miriam joyce haines ( kasey rogers ( or laura elliott ) ) is found murdered in an amusement park .
guy of course is the chief suspect , and bruno keeps `` bumping into him '' reminding him of their `` plan '' , and giving him more things to help him kill the father he wants dead .
this murder enquiry and bruno 's stalking are threatening his tennis career , and his relationship with the daughter of sen. morton ( north by northwest 's leo g. carroll ) , anne ( ruth roman ) .
bruno realises that guy wo n't do his murder , so he decides to plant the evidence at the crime scene to make him guilty , guy 's monogrammed cigarette lighter at the amusement park .
after his tennis game , guy and anne ( who obviously found out the murder `` plan '' ) race to the amusement park to stop bruno , and they have a fight on the speeding out-of-control carousel .
also starring patricia hitchcock ( the director 's daughter ) as barbara morton , marion lorne as mrs. anthony , jonathan hale as mr. anthony , howard st. john as police capt .
turley and john brown as prof. collins , and hitchcock 's cameo is the man boarding train carrying a double bass .
some interesting dialogue and character interactions , some good suspense moments , and of course the unforgettable carousel finale , a good classic film .
it was nominated the oscar for best cinematography .
sir alfred hitchcock was number 75 on the 100 greatest pop culture icons , the film was number 32 on 100 years , 100 thrills .
very good !