one of alfred hitchcock 's three greatest films , along with `` psycho '' and `` the 39 steps '' , `` strangers on a train '' is as brilliantly out-of-control as a merry-go-round in metcalf , and almost as deadly .
it 's the kind of film you have so much fun watching , you ca n't even feel properly guilty about it until you have time to catch your breath.top amateur tennis contender guy haines ( farley granger ) meets a singularly weird , louche stranger named bruno anthony ( robert walker ) on a train .
thanks to the gossip pages , bruno knows all about guy 's problems with his no-good wife miriam , and rather gaily suggests they do each other a favor : bruno will kill miriam and guy will kill bruno 's father , who wants to put bruno in an institution .
guy laughs it off , but bruno ai n't kidding , as guy finds out to his peril.it 's a great premise for a murder story , and hitchcock gives `` strangers on a train '' a run for all its worth , with the help of walker in perhaps the greatest performance in any hitchcock film , including anthony perkins in `` psycho '' .
while perkins makes his mark playing tetchily against the grain , walker as anthony is one perfectly at home either buttering up old ladies at a swank dinner party or strangling a young woman at an amusement park.what drives bruno ?
many commentators suggest his apparent homosexuality finds a match in pretty guy .
yes , bruno lights up the old gay-dar , but guy seems happy enough on love 's rebound with socialite anne morton ( ruth roman ) .
bruno 's interest for guy could just as easily be envy , for someone making a mark in the world while he lives at home , letting mommy file his nails .
`` oh , i certainly admire people who do things , '' bruno purrs , looking like a cat eyeing a mouse .
`` you know , it must be pretty exciting to be so important .
`` later on , bruno calls himself a `` bum '' , accurate enough except for our rooting interest in him , even as he wrecks guy 's life with his homicidal meddling .
it 's the ultimate perverse underdog 's tale .
there 's a sense of integrity about bruno , in his dogged dedication , which commands our respect and which hitchcock plays to so brilliantly .
when bruno floats away from the scene of his big crime , am i the only sick person in this world who 's actually happy for him ?
i think not , yet hitchcock keeps the story on a right-enough path for us to realize how low we have fallen .
we do n't want bruno to win , exactly , but we enjoy his élan as he tries.everything else is so perfect , or at least close enough , to make every shot memorable .
hitchcock always managed at least 2-3 good setpiece sequences per movie ; here you get a score of them at the amusement park alone .
( `` 20 big shows '' the neon side at the entrance says , and they are n't kidding . )
script , camera-work , a gripping tennis match , ruth roman 's jaw-dropping figure , it 's all too much greatness for one film to contain .
even granger does his callow-youth thing here with more risible plausibility than gregory peck ever managed.you can call this a clinic in movie-making , but `` clinic '' sounds too dull .
`` strangers on a train '' is good nasty fun , all the way through , leaving you with a nifty stinger at the tail as you realize you were rooting for the wrong stranger all along .
heck , i 'll take that ride over again in a second !