when alfred hitchcock made strangers on a train it was a harbinger for the bulk of the film going public that he was back at the top of his form .
from 1946 to 1950 his films were not box office successes , and his contractual arrangement with david o. selznick ended because of this .
actually he made some really good films in the period , such as notorious , spellbound , under capricorn , rope , and ( my opinion ) stagestruck .
but while notorious and spellbound were liked , the audiences were turned off by hitch 's attempts at experimentation : his use of a dream sequence by salvator dali in spellbound was acceptable , as was the setting among psychiatrists .
but the experiment with long takes in rope confused the public ( making ignore the merits of that film ) , and the willingness of hitch to have the audience fooled by a lie told by a leading character in a flashback was disliked - far more disliked then it deserved to be - in stagestruck .
a matter of bad timing for under capricorn ( it was released just as the scandal of it 's star ingrid bergman and roberto rosallini broke out ) made it seem to be a failure ( which it was n't ) .
the paradine case was another failure - and one that really had little in it 's favor.with strangers on a train , hitchcock shied away from the special tricks that interested him in the recent films .
instead he concentrated on his favorite themes of shared guilt and mistaken identity .
based on a novel by patricia highsmith , the story was of how guy haines , a professional tennis player , meets a fan of his - bruno anthony , a playboy - who is traveling on a cross-country train at the same time as the athlete .
bruno is talkative and fawning , and guy views him as one of the typical fans he has met ... if a little eccentric , with his talk of wanting to be on the first rocket to outer space .
but bruno knows all about guy 's personal problems .
he is married to a promiscuous young woman named miriam , and is in love with anne morton , daughter of a senator .
bruno knows that miriam wo n't divorce her successful celebrity husband .
bruno mentions how he can sympathize - he hates his stepfather , who is constantly criticizing him .
then bruno mentions ( sort of off the cuff ) an idea he has about two men - technically strangers - exchanging murders for each other and then committing two perfect , unsolvable crimes instead of fumbling them .
guy listens to the idea - and agrees it is an interesting idea .
the train reaches guy 's destination , and his last comment is like a validation of the idea .
he just does not realize that the `` eccentric '' bruno is a sociopath , and believes guy has just agreed to the two killing each other 's foe !
it 's a wonderfully simple plot actually .
bruno , of course does kill miriam , but he fully expects guy to live up to the murder agreement and kill his stepfather .
guy is horrified - and worse , he finds that he is the police department 's number one suspect .
when bruno , to encourage guy , mentions he has the latter 's lighter ( he pocketed it on the train ) and can plant it at the murder site , guy finds himself in deeper problems - how to avoid the police , and how to control ( if possible ) the insane bruno ?
hitch always planned the shots of his film carefully , so that from the start we see both our `` heroes '' from their feet heading towards their fateful meeting in the train with each other .
there are constant cross-contacts used in the film to show how the two men are drawn into each other 's orbits .
it is like fate drawing them together .
yet both have their own personality - and hitch , with a typical twist , makes the mad bruno actually more of an attractive figure .
his scheme may be vicious ( it will kill two people if successful , and he will have guy live up to the agreement no matter what ) but he has a zest for life .
one suspects that once guy too had one , but his marriage 's failure , coupled with his now dating a socially prominent woman , has made him more circumspect and dull than he was.the cast is good too .
robert walker probably had his finest role in this film ( only a year before his death ) .
it was a far cry from the homespun boy-next-door of since you went away or the clock .
his lithe figure also looked quite elegant in tales in several scenes .
as guy farley granger acts like a cousin of his co-murderer in rope , especially as the circumstances make him increasingly suspicious to the authorities ( as his earlier role made his jittery behavior increasingly suspicion to jimmy stewart ) .
as for the ladies , kasie rogers is properly sluttish as miriam - enabling the audience to be prepared for her demise ( in a famous sequence shot in the reflection of her eyeglasses ) so that they actually are cheering bruno in his act of evil .
patricia hitchcock appears as the younger sister of anne ( ruth roman ) , who bears a close resemblance to miriam , and accidentally sets off bruno at a social occasion .
she plays this rare role well .
ruth roman is properly supportive of granger , but her role is limiting because she is establishment in her background , and somewhat low keyed .
other supporting performers , leo g. caroll as the senator , marion lorne ( usually a comedian ) as bruno 's dotty mother , and norma varden as an unexpected recipient of violence from walker are all shown to best advantage - all at the hand of a master .