in alfred hitchcock 's adaptation of patricia highsmith 's `` strangers on a train '' , guy haines ( farley granger ) and bruno anthony ( robert walker ) meet for the first time on a train journey and discuss the idea of carrying out two murders .
the rather pushy anthony suggests that he could murder haines ' unfaithful wife and haines could murder anthony 's domineering father .
the lack of any connection between the murderer and the victim in each case should ensure that both crimes would remain unsolved .
the tenor of the conversation leaves the more easy going haines with the impression that the proposal is not entirely serious .
complications arise later when anthony murders haines ' wife in an amusement park and then pursues haines to keep his side of the bargain.the differences between the two men are clear from the start .
haines is a professional tennis player , respectable and rather modest about his achievements whereas anthony 's life is going nowhere and he admits to having been thrown out of three colleges for drinking and gambling .
haines is in a relationship with a senator 's daughter who he wants to marry .
anthony characteristically interprets this as a cynical manoeuvre on haines ' part to provide himself with a shortcut to a career .
the character differences are also reinforced visually .
anthony often inhabits shadowed areas and travels in a boat called `` pluto '' whereas haines is frequently seen from the more heroic perspective provided by low camera angles.there are some striking visual sequences such as : - ( 1 ) the murder of haines ' wife which is shown through the reflection of her glasses which fall to the ground as she struggles to free herself from anthony .
( 2 ) the depiction of anthony alone , dressed in black and looking very small against the enormous white jefferson memorial building .
( 3 ) the occasion where all the spectators at a tennis match are moving their heads in unison , following the action , whilst one head ( anthony 's ) chillingly remains fixed in a position looking at haines .
( 4 ) the scene where the roundabout goes wildly out of control and eventually crashes spectacularly.frequent use is made of `` doubles '' throughout the story , for example , haines and anthony are originally introduced as 2 pairs of feet getting out of their taxis and going to the train .
as the train pulls out of the station , there are 2 sets of tracks each providing a choice of 2 ways forward .
the 2 men discuss the murders of 2 potential victims and order 2 double whiskies .
the hitchcock cameo sees him struggling on board the train carrying a double bass .
haines feels double crossed when his wife reneges on an agreement they had for her to see a lawyer to arrange a divorce .
haines ' wife goes to the amusement park with 2 boyfriends .
when anthony confronts her before the murder he lights his cigarette lighter and produces 2 reflections in her glasses .
anthony later becomes very disconcerted when he meets the senator 's younger daughter who he sees as a double for haines ' wife .
anthony also feels double crossed when haines refuses to go ahead with the second murder .
when haines is travelling alone in a train going to metcalf , he sees 2 men in the same carriage accidentally kicking their feet together in the same way that he and anthony had.the action throughout the movie proceeds at a great pace and the performances of robert walker and patricia hitchcock ( as the senator 's younger daughter ) are particularly powerful .