in truffaut book-length interview with hitchcock , it 's apparent that big al 's fear from the police dates back to his childhood .
his father sent him to the police station carrying a note .
the note said : `` he 's been naughty , imprison him for an hour . ''
the policemen obliged and ever since hitchcock has had a deep fear of being wrongly accused and taken by the police .
`` strangers on a train '' is probably one of the best in his `` wrongly-accused '' series .
the movie is based on a patricia highsmith novel .
that 's the same author who wrote the ripley series .
she was always fascinated by smart criminals.hitchcock 's opening is very strong and takes you immediately to the protagonists : guy haines , a famous tennis player , and bruno anthony , the aspiring criminal .
the two guys share a chemistry which in that day and age was probably a lot more than what the audience could chew .
bruno tries to persuade guy that they could commit the perfect murder ( leaving no clues ) , if they switch victims .
bruno will kill guy 's wife who would n't give him a divorce , and guy would kill bruno 's father .
the motives are respectively love and money.bruno 's performance is meant to be seductive and homoerotic .
this is not something that was done by accident .
in fact , hitchcock edited two versions of the movie : one us , one uk .
in the us version the volume of bruno 's seductiveness was turned down quite a bit .
`` strangers on a train '' is a very deep movie but more importantly this is another excellent hitchcock thriller .
an excellent example of a thrilling scene is when guy is climbing the steps up to bruno 's father room .
hitchcock reasoned that the audience 's attention needed to be distracted at this point so that they do n't figure out what guy will find in the room .
hitch treats us to a huge , menacing dog at the top of the stairs which provided the needed distraction.the most famous shot in the movie occurs during a tennis match .
bruno has been continuously stalking guy so that guy will fulfil his end of the bargain ( kill his father ) .
when guy looks at the audience , all the heads are swiveling back and forth .
all except one - bruno 's .
he 's looking straight at guy with an `` i'll-get-you '' smile.the ending is another example of suspense .
both men fight for one key piece of evidence on a merry-go-round that 's rotating at mad speed .
a worker is crawling under it so he could get to the controls .
when we finally get off this ride and the movie ends with guy proving his innocence , we are left exhausted and nail-less ( for those of us still biting our nails ! )
.
`` strangers on a train '' is easily one of hitchcock 's best `` wrongly accused '' movies .
some credit him with one of the best villains ( bruno ) as well .
all in all , the movie might appear somewhat dated but that 's a lesson in thriller-making from the master himself .
i wo n't turn down leonardo , if he came to teach me renaissance painting , so neither should you.
< < review posted at filmdailies.com > >