well , this is about as good as they come .
there are arguments about whether hitchcock was only a `` master of commercial suspense '' or maybe a `` compulsive technician '' -- or was he really `` deep . ''
nobody knows precisely what terms like that mean , but it 's legitimate to ask if , at his best , he could not have been all three things at once.in this one he seems to be about at his peak .
hardly anything in it is accidental .
it abounds with doubt , ambiguity , and wit .
and the story is engrossing , patricia highsmith apparently having complexes similar to hitchcock 's own.i 'm sure the plot has been thoroughly outlined elsewhere so i wo n't bother going into it .
i 'll just point out five on screen incidents that hitchcock is undoubtedly responsible for.bruno antony ( walker ) has followed miriam ( laura miller ) and her two boyfriends to a carnival at night with the intent of murdering her .
she 's noticed his attention and is innocently flattered by it.1 .
laura and her two friends rent an electric boat to go through the tunnel of love and then to an island in the center of the lake .
walker is right behind them , smiling , in his boat -- pluto .
`` pluto . ''
it 's not an allusion to the walt disney cartoon character .
it 's a reference to pluto , also called hades , a god of the underworld in greek and roman mythology .
this tiny touch ca n't be an accident .
and the `` underworld '' that walker represents is not just a literal hell , but the underworld of the human mind .
i hate to say he 's a jungian `` shadow '' but that 's what he is .
( did carl jung see this movie ?
he was alive at the time of its release -- but probably not . )
2. now , this is a deadly serious sequence , right ?
walker is a lunatic who is about to murder a woman he does n't even know .
imagine the way this would have been laid out by most directors .
a night-time stalking through a crowded carnival , stealing from shadow to shadow , the killer peering from behind the canvas walls , and so forth .
what does hitchcock show us ?
when walker first comes through the gates , concentrating on his victim , a little boy in a cowboy suit , holding a balloon , runs up and shouts , `` bang !
bang !
you 're dead ! ''
walker jerks his head back in surprise and glares down indignantly at the kid .
and when the kid starts to walk away , walker darts his cigarette at the balloon and pops it , then continues his pursuit without another glance .
that 's one way hitchcock treats impending doom.3 .
the famous strangling reflected in the fallen eyeglasses , which has been aped innumerable times.4 .
miriam and her friends stop at one of those devices that you pound with a big mallet , sending a kind of hockey puck up the shaft to measure the strength of your blow .
one of her boyfriend whams it and the puck does n't reach the bell at the top .
under miriam 's delighted and admiring gaze , walker smiles and rubs his hands together , then picks up the mallet , slams it down , and the puck bangs against the bell .
she 's thrilled .
he puts the mallet down , looks at her , grins , and waggles his eyebrows at her like a ten-year-old showoff !
5. after the discovery of miriam 's body , while whistles blow and people shout , walker leaves the carnival and encounters a blind man waiting at the curb .
walker takes the old fellow by the arm and leads him across the intersection , gravely holding up his hand to stop the traffic .
a macabre joke.these incidents and others all take place during the ten or fifteen-minutes of the carnival visit .
( robert walker 's performance is exceptional throughout . )
it 's essentially a kind of invitation to be noirish .
( cf : `` ride the pink horse '' ) but the menace of the scene is undercut by hitchcock 's insistence on irony and distance .
none of the familiar noir techniques are employed .
there 's nothing really `` creepy '' about it .
and the murder itself is hardly a savage one .
i do n't think that any director other than hitchcock would have handled it the way he did .
it would have been all menace and shadows , hiding places , abortive attempts , scowls instead of grins.not that it 's an entirely flawless movie .
a flawless movie is not yet with us .
some of the middle section is a bit slow going and farley granger , although a nice guy , is stolid , dull , and rather stupid .
his new girl friend is just dull.hitchcock was to treat the misattribution of guilt with deadly seriousness in `` the wrong man . ''
i 'm not sure hitchcock ever thought about the difference between legal guilt and moral guilt .
the latter was imposed on him at an early age by his catholic education .
`` original sin '' -- you 're born with it -- and all that .
in filmed interviews , he always glibly explained away his fear of the police and of authorities generally by telling a story about his father taking him to the police station to put a scare into him after some peccadillo .
we 're justified in asking if that was only what psychoanalysis calls a `` screen memory . ''
i hope you get the pun .
i know , i know .
it 's strained and inept but i spent a good deal of valuable time thinking it up .