looking back at the career of alfred hitchcock , it never fails to be surprising how such a brilliant and visionary man could be denied sufficient recognition for how revolutionary he was for the film industry .
it is likely a sign of how ahead of his time hitchcock was , always attempting to push the envelope , and never coasting along with a film made simply for the purpose of being entertaining , but always with a deeper , more poignant motive on his mind .
strangers on a train , one of hitchcock 's first and more underrated hits , is a perfect example of these traits - an entertaining and suspenseful story , even when viewed over 50 years later , yes , but so carefully and intelligently constructed it stands today as a masterpiece in film technique .
arguably one of the pioneering `` suspense thrillers '' , strangers on a train may come across as slightly dated in certain aspects , but it retains every bit of superbly crafted tension as it did back in 1951 ( if perhaps slightly less shocking ) .
the brilliant use of cinematography and lighting as well as quick , careful editing are what really make the film stand out , drawing out every possible iota of tension and retaining the audience 's focus even in slower scenes .
if there was ever any doubt of what a simply masterful filmmaker hitchcock was , simply watching five minutes of strangers on a train should be enough to disavow such sentiments ; every shot is so carefully chosen and constructed , all serving to drive the storyline ahead in a particularly innovative fashion .
sadly enough , there are certain moments in the story which are screechingly out of place enough to jar our focus away from the superb cinematography and editing - bruno being able to reach down to the bottom of a sewer grate is simply unbelievable , and the figure of a stereotypical old man crawling under a wildly out of control carousel provides unintentional comedic relief in what is meant to be the film 's most tense and engaging scene .
these are only brief moments , but they are enough to stand out as painfully weak in an otherwise stellar film.but what really makes strangers on a train stand out is the story premise .
as hollywood films of late run the risk of descending inescapably further and further into the vat of turgid clichée after clichée , it 's wonderfully refreshing to see a 50 year old film with a premise which actually comes across as smart and original .
sure it 's fairly straightforward , but the concept of `` swapping murders '' is simply one that would not fly in films of today 's day and age , which makes it all the more entertaining to watch ; the film 's brilliant screenplay keeps the action flowing at a swift pace while providing us with some wonderfully memorable lines all the while .
one ca n't help but notice the deeper themes hitchcock is alluding to throughout as well , especially the concept of `` darkness in humanity 's heart '' , demonstrated by elderly ladies being fascinated and exhilarated by the prospect of murder , as well as bruno 's own cavalier attitude towards death .
hitch also works in many moments of dark humour ( bruno popping a child 's balloon with his cigarette is priceless ) , and irony , shooting suspenseful scenes in happy , easy-going environments , such as the iconic carnival scenes , to create an even more eerie atmosphere .
this may be a suspense thriller , yes , but to overlook the brain concealed beneath it would be simply inexcusable .
the antagonistic figure of bruno ( essayed to perverse perfection by robert walker , sadly in his last film role , but easily stealing the film from his admittably very talented fellow cast members ) is without a doubt what makes strangers on a train so memorable , as the character is a marvel to behold .
here we have a simply superbly crafted villainous figure , all the more intriguing by how ordinary and unassuming he seems .
rather than cackling madly and thwarting the hero at every possible moment , bruno is a calm , controlled , psychotic mess .
he speaks of murder in such an offhand tone , yet retains a passionate glint in his eye when discussing different fashions of killing people .
bruno could seem to represent the `` id '' , as freud would put it , the inner , darker and uninhibited aspects of mankind .
it makes an interesting contrast to the hero figure , guy haines , and how bland and uninteresting he seems , almost as if to drive home the prospect of evil being much more interesting and appealing than constantly striving to do the right thing .
yet despite this implied message , hitch still twists our emotions enough that we root for guy at every turn , and cheer at each new obstacle he is forced to overcome .
it 's a testament to actor farley granger 's talent that despite robert walker 's villain easily stealing the show , granger 's hero still comes across as sympathetic , still commanding our support even when falling prey to being a far less compelling character .
superb support is given by ruth roman , who manages to overcome the clichée and be a more innovative and complex romantic interest figure , kasey rogers giving a stunning performance as guy 's horrifyingly manipulative and hedonistic first wife , and patricia hitchcock , proving that she is far more talented than being simply `` the director 's daughter '' would imply .
the superb cast ( headed by a simply wonderful walker ) really bring the film to life , adding so much more merit to the film than simply hitchcock 's breathtaking stylistics .
all in all , strangers on a train may still come across as slightly too dated for certain viewers , but it 's still a shock how modern and appealing to contemporary audiences seems , considering it was released half a century ago .
once again , hitchcock proves his unparalleled mastery of tension and film technique , and the film 's surprisingly original and enjoyable premise is alone worth a viewing .
highly recommended to anyone wishing to undertake a brilliantly made but superbly entertaining film experience !
-9/10