i have used this movie in my college ethics courses for over 10 years ( also woody allen 's `` crimes and misdemeanors '' -- another terrific , multi-leveled ethical study ) .
it 's fiction .
i do n't focus too much on the unrealistic features of `` strangers '' because all fictional films are obviously false on many levels .
i love the film as gallows comedy , tautly told , with many ironic twists and visual pleasures -- even if it 's `` unbelievable . ''
the story is told so well that i do n't even think of criticizing its plausibility ( although i must confess that the tennis match seems the weakest part to me -- too much hollywood fluff and not enough real tennis competition ) .some problems presented in the film that hold promise for realistic moral education and ethical discussion:1. ethical passivity : some weaknesses of the guy character are intended by hitchcock .
a primary ethical insight of the film is the danger of inability to articulate one 's moral positions .
guy is unable to effectively block bruno 's crazy proposals at the start .
an interesting question is why and how does guy behave so passively , ineffectively ?
a possible answer is his depression because of his intense and complicated divorce process .
2. miscommunication : guy commits another failure at the start : on the train , to get away quickly , he agrees that bruno 's ideas are all good .
but guy 's literal meaning is opposite to his inflected , sarcastic meaning .
bruno takes the literal meaning as an agreement for the criss-cross murders .
guy takes the sarcastic meaning as an escape from any murder agreement .
to some extent , near the beginning , bruno may be partially pretending that an agreement has been struck , to draw guy further into a web of complicity .
bruno is manipulating guy ; guy 's linguistic ambiguity on the train gives bruno a chance to put an ethical `` stranglehold '' on guy .
bruno manipulating guy may also take on other meanings .
.
.
.3. secrecy : some have speculated about a sexual relationship between guy and bruno .
it seems at first ridiculous , especially since guy appears obviously heterosexual in his relationships with miriam and anne .
however , remember that guy is also ineffective with both women .
guy appears ( stereotypically -- it 's 1951 remember ) effeminate , especially in relationship to bruno .
guy , the strong athlete , is weak on the inside .
bruno is also conflicted ( playing `` against himself '' ) , appearing facially and physically strong at first but then displaying some `` effeminate '' traits ( bruno 's fashion and footwork ; his gushing emotionally to guy in different situations ; his receiving a manicure from his doting mother ; bruno kissing and desperately fondling his mother 's hand ; other more subtle gay stereotypes that hold cryptic meaning from hitchcock 's point of view ) .
i wish i could hear hitchcock clarify his intended meanings here.4 .
dishonesty and distrust : guy makes some colossal blunders in hiding truths about bruno from family and from police .
guy fails to fully comprehend that admitting fault quickly may be better than a cover-up or a delay in confession .
again guy is driven by passivity , insecurity , fear -- and perhaps a self-hate that is closer to bruno 's own self-loathing than we care to see or to admit .
both guy and bruno act out their own parables of impotence.5 .
lack of evidence : guy feels a problem mustering the evidence to acquit himself .
while quickly going to the police would solve a huge problem , guy traps himself with his own doubts and insecurities : the absence of desired alibis ; the inability of the alcoholic professor to testify on guy 's behalf ; the obsessive need to appear politically pristine ; and other personality factors that cause guy to feel defenseless .
he is as dysfunctional as bruno -- just not as dangerous ( yet one could partially blame guy for miriam 's murder ) .6. disease and mental disorder : an interesting question is how legally responsible is bruno for the murders ?
the more ethically incompetent bruno is as a sick sociopath , the more guilty guy may be as someone healthy who failed to stand up and morally act to prevent the crimes .
guy 's failure is like a man who fails to call the police when a sick friend threatens suicide , and death ensues .
one could argue that more than one crime is committed and that guy is an emotionally hobbled accomplice.these and many other features of the film make `` strangers on a train '' a gem of a morality play , a diamond for philosophical and cinematic reflections .