this is such a revered and studied film , a classic among hitchcock 's many , it takes no cajoling to want to watch it again .
yet you think : can it hold up even when the huge ( and clever , and amazing ) trick of the plot is no surprise ?
yes.and for starters there is the start , a profoundly beautiful and slick telling of the really the whole story , the gist of it .
two taxis , two men shown with their shoes , each walking onto the train , sitting then across from each other , and , oops , a mistake , a little nudge , and the conversation begins , and we see the men themselves .
they are interchangeable .
the tone here is characteristic of hitchcock , as it is in many horror and suspense films -- cheery and light .
we know entering the film , however , that this wo n't be the case , so already we are worried .
what , after all , is about to go wrong ?
a lot .
in truly hitchcock fashion , it is a purely innocent man ( nearly always a man ) who faces injustice , who is trapped by circumstance threatening what is most valuable to him .
the innocent in this case , tennis player guy haynes , is played with an innocence that is believable -- his collegiate politeness in that first scene , for example , as he realizes the other man is a little cuckoo , is just what you or i might do .
the not-so-innocent man is the self- absorbed and scarily intelligent spoiled child , bruno anthony , played with utter brilliance by robert walker .
( this uncanny performance is equivalent to that of another hitchcock wacko , played by anthony perkins in psycho . )
so from scene one , on the train ( and the train , really gorgeous ! )
, we have the two leads and we have the mind-blowing and utterly simple and ultimately devastating plot , from the first novel by patricia highsmith , who also wrote the books behind the two mr. ripley movies .
and it does n't hurt that the screenplay was co- written by raymond chandler himself , who knows something about economy and clever dialog .
and crime.and of course there is more than just the first scene .
what to note ?
well , that smarty of a senator 's daughter ( i thought she was terrific ) is hitchcock 's daughter , patricia , who is still with us ( as of 2009 ; she also had a role in psycho ) .
and there is a characteristic landmark location for a key scene in the film -- the tennis courts in the hamptons , known to us as the site of the u.s. open .
the fantastic last full scene with the carousel is the only place where hitchcock moves into a kind of slow and steady montage , building up the suspense by making it surreal .
the fear gets positively fattening with the laughing children and the old man crawling underneath it all .
and when it collapses in a crash -- that 's all backprojected on a set , one of the more naturalistic uses by a director known for not worrying about the realism of his back projections.the photography is that perfect hollywood stunning without becoming so stylized ( as in some noir films ) that it is an object in its own right .
look again at the first scene , or the shooting ( and editing ) of haynes entering the house for what the audience thinks is a murder .
this is sophisticated construction .
when we are not completely surprised that it 's bruno in the bed , that only proves that the director has us on our toes .
something unexpected is always expected.are there glitches ?
who knows ?
it depends on what kind of falseness you can accept ( or embrace ) as beautiful style .
the scene where bruno is choking the old woman at a party is both brilliant ( the woman , played by norma varden , is a caricature so believable it takes your breath away ) and marred by his looking at the senator 's daughter and being triggered into a deadly trance by her glasses , and her resemblance to his earlier victim .
this is a mid-20th century idea of psychology that intrudes on many of hitchcock 's efforts .
( the end of psycho , for starters . )
the wikipedia article on the film smartly emphasizes the consistent doubling of things in the movie , from the main characters to the murder victim and the senator 's daughter .
this echoes in lots of little ways -- two men trail him to the tennis court , two men accompany the victim to the amusement park , and so on .
there can be too much made of this , but it does supply an aesthetic consistency above and below our consciousness .
do n't forget , there are meant to be two murders -- it is the lack of the second murder , the inability to create a doubling in that case , that causes bruno to unravel.walker the actor had emotional problems and was institutionalized in the year before this movie was shot , and just afterwards , he died from a reaction to a drug used to calm one of his outbursts .
though he appeared in other films , strangers on a train is easily his tour-de- force .
farley granger had a long career that never quite saw him break into true stardom , though his style can have a peculiar nervous sweetness that really works , especially in they live by night .
and if you watch this one for the first or third time , do look for the chilling and hilarious scene at the tennis match where the crowd 's heads all move back and forth in unison -- except for bruno 's .
he is staring out without moving his head straight at us .
as the trailer for the movie says , after this movie , you wo n't be talking to `` strangers on a train . ''