one would have expected hitchcock 's return to major studio filmmaking to err on the side of chastened caution .
surely few expected his most riotous , unrestrained film , a gleeful melange of vicious black comedy , exciting suspense , mocking manipulation , and astonishing flights of fancy .
but that is precisely what they got : strangers on a train.what is remarkable is how much bruno 's transgression disrupts the world of the film .
much has been made of the masterly crosscutting motif , but its immediate effect is to completely obstruct the straight line of progress guy is making of his life , and hence the society he represents or is eager to join .
guy is the archetypal american , the working-class boy made good , moving in influential circles , athletic , successful , handsome .
bruno is his destructive opposite , gay , decadent , 'european ' ( he lives off his father , in a big house , and just lounges about dreaming of murder ) .
bruno 's life is one of repetition , circularity , whereas guy moves straight ahead .
it is bruno 's achievement to move guy into his realm ( represented by the merry-go-round ) and force him to transgress ( break the law , hope for murder ( bruno 's ) ) .bruno is quite literally fighting patriarchy .
all the authority figures in the film are criticised - bruno 's father , a man whose brutality we get a glimpse of , but the true horror of which is constantly alluded to in the film ( especially in aunt clara 's paintings - that incredibly intense negative energy must come from somewhere ) ; anna 's incredibly machiavellian , self-serving father ; the insensitive judge who thinks nothing of lunching after an execution ; the tennis commentator whose smugly authorative comments are always mistaken .
far from being the mother-hater of legend , hitch , as robin wood perceived , is deeply hostile to fathers and patriarchy.bruno 's transgression turns the world topsy-turvy .
this is hitch 's most surreal film .
whenever guy is in his plot , he is filmed straight , with conventionally romantic music .
but whenever bruno intrudes , the atmosphere becomes carnivalesque , bizarre , much more fun .
this is hitch 's first truly american film , revelling in the primitive detritus of americana .
grown men puncture little boys ' balloons , or try to throw them off merry-go-rounds .
distinguished professors of mathematics sing about goats on trains .
elderly society matrons are strangled at elegant soirees .
washington is filmed like a series of spare lines in a vast desert under a huge sky , like a haunting dali painting .
there is one of the greatest , and funniest , scenes in all cinema when we see a motionless , smiling bruno in a sea of turning heads at a tennis match , an image worthy of magritte .
just look at any scene with bruno in it , and watch it derail into the bizarre.phalluses abound in the most ridiculous permutations - check all those balloons ( hitch had obviously just seen the third man ) - as well as in more staid environs : washington will never look the same again .
strangers is also , vertigo notwithstanding , hitch 's most overtly sexual film - as well as the phalluses , there is the sustained homoeroticism , the remarkable play with 'riding ' horses ; the gobsmacking fellatio joke when hitch 's daughter spills powder over the policeman.and yet hitch does n't stint on good old suspense .
in the very proper endeavour to show what a great artist he was , critics tend to overlook what made him famous in the first place .
much has been made of bruno as a prototype of norman bates , and hitch plays merry havoc on audience identification , willing bruno into murder .
there is a hilariously painful sequence where bruno loses the lighter with which he intends to frame guy down a drain .
the gasps of tension and sighs of relief on the part of the audience i was a part of in support of an insane murderer is inherently funny , slightly disturbing , and highly revealing about our true reactions to conformity and success .
and hitch milks it with callous glee - listen to the mocking music and exagerrated compositions , and kick yourself for taking it all so seriously.strangers is one of hitch 's five best films , and therefore one of the greatest things in cinema .
the dialogue is so strange and brilliant , i ca n't believe it was n't written by chandler .
patricia hitchcock is a wonderful imp , standing in for her cheeky father as she taunts guy .
the fairground finale is a remarkable , dizzying fusion of exciting , tense set-piece , black comedy and symbolic site .
if bruno 's final words condemn him to hell ( according to the catholic precepts hitch is supposed to embody : compare with a similar ending in the killers ) , we applaud his integrity , infinitely preferable to guy 's debased serving of self .