i enjoyed this film , which offers a variety of interesting subplots and complex love-hate relations , along with interspersed action scenes and some lighthearted moments in which the mountain men counter harsh army discipline .
all the main characters are well cast .
true , john wayne or robert mitchum could probably have done the starring role just as well , but victor mature certainly comes across as a headstrong brawling tarzan of sorts .
reminds me of his film role as samson , another difficult , but not impossible , man to tame.the mountain men in the opening scene are certainly an anachronism , as the era of pure trapper mountain men pretty much ended 20 years before , with the collapse of western beaver populations as well as the fashion market for beaver pelts .
this story supposedly takes place in oregon just before the end of the civil war .
judging by the volcano in the background of the opening scene ( probably mt .
lassen ) , the fictional fort was located somewhere in a remote section of the cascades , as we never see any other civilians .
however , there is plenty of conflicting evidence that it actually takes place in the mountains of wyoming or montana !
red cloud , the war chief who threatens the trappers and soldiers in the fort , is the namesake of a very famous sioux war chief who led a very successful campaign in 1865-66 to exterminate the newly built army forts in wyoming and montana .
fort laramie ( eastern wyoming ) is mentioned as being not too far removed from the fictional fort .
the plains tribe of assiniboines is mentioning as joining red cloud .
this aspect of the story , then , bears a general resemblance to historical fact.it may be of interest to note certain resemblances between the plot of this story and that of john ford 's `` fort apache '' .
in both cases , we have a fort commander who was recently assigned to his first frontier post with native american problems .
he underestimates the military prowess of his adversaries , regarding them as little more than cannon fodder to promote his career .
in both films , he pays dearly for his inexperience in dealing with the enemy.. also in common , the greenhorn commander resents a subordinate who has long experience with the local native americans and wants to tell him what is wise to do and not to do .
in both films , we have a budding romantic relaionship between a woman very close to the commander 's heart and a subordinate , which the commander does everything to squelch .
clearly , the commander must be eliminated to allow these romances to proceed to completion.i also see certain resemblances with `` the misfits '' .
the soldiers , as a whole , including the commander , are misfits of a sort ( ( as one of them admits ) : mostly they have `` problems '' or are raw recruits with no experience fighting native americans .
the commander 's wife apparently is the only woman in or anywhere near this fort , thus is inherently a misfit , with a husband who is very uncertain of his future in the army .
the trappers , in turn , are also misfits , not really wanting to accept army or civilian discipline , yet cut off from their previous free spirit lives by the recent army-generated antagonism by red cloud .
finally , we can also compare this story with anthony mann 's later film `` the far country '' , starring jimmy stewart .
in stewart 's case , he can choose to return to being a loner cowboy , at the end .
but mature 's character does n't come up with an appetizing new way of being his own boss .
red cloud has made life outside of the army in this region too dangerous to contemplate .
besides , he has an obsession with the commander 's wife .