`the last frontier ' is a superior western that overcomes numerous deficiencies in weaving its tale of trappers jed ( victor mature ) , gus ( james whitmore ) and mongo ( pat hogan ) and their relationships with the army , particularly captain riordon ( guy madison ) , colonel marston ( robert preston ) and corrina marston , colonel 's wife ( anne bancroft ) .
hired as scouts after losing their supplies to the indians , jed , gus and mungo adjust to living the `civilized ' life within a fort on the edge of the `last frontier . '
jed , who has been raised by gus , both inspires and looks up to the `older ' gus and mungo , and has an especially difficult time dealing with `civilization . '
his real problems start after he becomes strongly attracted to the colonel 's wife , corrina .
colonel marstonis a reckless man , who endangers every one around him with his dreams of ruthless victory over any opponent .
corrina , a woman repressed by her station and sense of responsibility , loves her husband for what he could be and jed for what he is .
caught in the middle is captain riordon , a brave and likeable man torn among his duty to the army , his strong friendship with jed and his fear of the likely disastrous consequences of the colonel 's recklessness .
what makes this movie so interesting ( as well as entertaining ) is that , in most cases the weaknesses and the strengths of `the last frontier ' are exactly the same elements ( forget the insipid title and dated music ) first , the screenplay .
almost all of the subplots ( particularly , the reckless colonel ) have been done better elsewhere , but have rarely been assembled with such eccentricity .
just when you think you know what is going to happen next , this one takes off in a different direction .
possible spoiler : `the last frontier ' being a `production code ' movie ( back in the day the word `virgin ' was taboo ) , it 's very surprising that the adultery factor was handled in such a mature , tolerant manner .
i expected either jed or the colonel 's wife to reap some retribution for their sin .
i was surprised and a little disappointed the movie did n't exploit that expectation to create a less predictable ending.second , the casting .
mature is at least ten years too old to play the part of jed , the wild-eyed innocent raised in the woods ' .
james whitmore , who plays gus , `the man who raised jed ' is actually five years younger than mature .
nevertheless , mature is very endearing , playing a character who is innocent of civilization but is in no way stupid .
although there were several actors who could have played the role at the time ( most notably , burt lancaster and kirk douglas ) , none could have played jed better .
preston ( also mature 's junior ) plays colonel marston , missing the tics and affectations one would expect from such a driven man .
however , preston perfectly captures the sense of honor someone must have seen in marston to promote such a reckless fool to colonel 's rank .
bancroft is an especially shrewd choice as corrina .
bancroft 's dark hair has been died blonde , and this achieves the same effect as it did for winona ryder ( `edward scissorhands ' ) and christina ricci ( `sleepy hollow ' ) .
that is , i felt conflicted about the character without knowing exactly why ; i believe the answer is that blondes and brunettes have considerably different skin tones and eye shades .
further , bancroft has always projected a toughness that borders on hardness ( here the blonde hair softens her up a bit , though ) .
this enables the 24 year old bancroft to stand toe to toe with both the 40 year old mature and the 37 year old preston ; yep , she could be a colonel 's wife .
madison walks a careful balancing act as riordan , handling a complex role and sometimes ackward dialogue.playing a role similar to that of john wayne in `fort apache ' madison does a more skillful job at it.this movie has a `silverado ' type camaraderie .
that alone makes it worth seeing .
it also has memorable performances , beautiful scenerary and great action and direction .
i just hope a letterbox version is available ( many have been lost ) , because this movie takes full advantage of that format .