note : after writing this review i see that this listing is indeed about the tv series and not the original film .
my mistake .
i thought imdb for a database for movies , not tv shows .
but since most people will look up this film under bagdad cafe and not out of rosenheim , which , strangely , is the name this film is listed under on imdb , i 'll leave this comment here.maybe i missed something , but when i read that other review it seemed to be entirely a review of the cbs series -- which must have been loosely based on this film .
i did not see the tv series and i might like it or not , but one thing i am sure is that it is very different than this film .
this film is not like a tv show at all and whoopie goldberg is not in it or any other famous hollywood stars ( other than jack palance , who was very charming in his role ) .this is a terribly sweet movie that totally thinks `` outside the box . ''
it is not at all like a hollywood formula movie , which is probably why the ( what 's a nice word for idiots ? )
who decide to market movies or not decided not to market this one.first of all , this movie captured my heart and imagination from the get-go .
from the music ( which is just part of the time so you ca n't really call it a musical ) to the cinematography to the really cool story.a german or bavarian woman ( very pretty and quite plump ) gets in an argument with the other german or bavarian man with whom she is traveling through the california desert with and parts ways with him -- he taking off in the car and she left to fend for herself on a deserted and desert-like highway out in the middle of nowhere.she finds the small and dilapidated but charming bagdad cafe , in bagdad , california and checks in .
the rest of the story is magic .
i do n't want to try to describe this film because i want you to enjoy every surprise.warning : if you are a racist or have something against big women you will not like this movie , as the main romantic lead is a big woman and characters of brown and red skin have large roles and are included as `` part of the mix '' without any racism involved.i gave this film a 10 for orginality , entertainment and sheer delightfulness .