as a longtime admirer of the 2001 film `` moulin rouge '' and a more recent admirer of jean renoir 's film-making , i knew that i 'd inevitably watch his `` french cancan '' sooner or later .
the movie tells a fictionalized story of the opening of the moulin rouge nightclub .
the impresario danglard ( jean gabin ) tries to turn montmartre laundress nini ( françoise arnoul ) into a cancan star , without arousing the wrath of his tempestuous mistress , the belly-dancing lola ( maria felix ) .
this is just one of several love triangles in `` french cancan '' -- true to stereotype , these french showbiz folk are always falling in love.renoir directs with his typical gentle humor and attention to supporting characters , and also wrote the lyrics to a beautiful waltz song prominently featured in the movie .
gabin perfectly incarnates the aging french playboy hero .
arnoul is a cute redhead who holds her own in the dance numbers , except for a few trick shots where a double is obviously used .
`` french cancan '' is billed as a musical comedy and while there are lots of musical numbers that take place on the nightclub stage , etc.
, only one character , casimir , ever breaks into song in the middle of conversation .
the actor who plays him , philippe clay , is fun to watch -- a really tall , skinny young man who sings , dances , and does contortions.the movie ends with a long cancan sequence , as all the characters learn to triumph over their problems and make art together .
the dancing is much more brightly lit and coherently edited than in `` moulin rouge '' ; in fact , if i have one complaint about `` french cancan , '' it 's that the whole thing is a little too technicolor .
even when nini experiences heartbreak or someone sings a melancholy song , the lighting is bright and flat , no shadows intruding .
yes , the result is a cheerful and warmhearted musical comedy ; it 's just that i ca n't help thinking that things were n't ever this colorful and innocent in real life .