jean renoir 's homage to the paris of the late 19th century is beautiful in many ways .
not only does it appear to have been photographed by toulouse-lautrec and mucha , it portrays the geographic paris ; the streets accessible only by staircases , the unpleasant end of fleeting popularity , and the sexual opportunism of men with a product to sell , in an uncompromising picture of show business that is in stark contrast with the picture painted by hollywood .
there is an obvious comparison to be made with lloyd bacon 's `` 42nd street , '' which had been made about 20 years before , featuring ruby keeler as a dancing sensation , a fresh-faced kid from the sticks who had come to new york to get into show business , who saves the show when the star fails -- '' you 're going out there a kid from the chorus , but you 've got to come back a star !
! ''
warner baxter 's `` julian marsh '' is a director who suffers for his art and is unappreciated .
jean gabin 's `` danglard '' keeps running afoul of genital politics , but when he talks about the show he is more like knute rockne than like julian marsh .
he 's all about the game , except -- for his pointy thing .
he has a profitable new venture sewed up until his mistress become jealous of the woman whom she recognizes as his next mistress .
his prospects rise and fall with every coital journey he takes .
danglard takes mistress 1 ( lola de castro , played by maria felix ) slumming to a dive , where he sees `` nini , '' ( françoise arnoul ) with her boyfriend and first lover , paulo the baker , and discovers that she is a spirited dancer .
he uses his charm and the prospect of money to lure nini to studying dancing so that she may go on the stage .
the prospect of money and fame charms nini , and she become danglard 's next mistress , as well as an apt student of the cancan , which danglard has dubbed `` french cancan , '' to cater to the current anglophile tendency in the dance.both `` 42nd st '' and `` french cancan '' are tributes to show business -- to modern entertainment -- that has is own iconography and its own conceit .
`` 42nd st. '' is centered around julian marsh , a great director of broadway shows , which he organizes with great personal energy and dubious sexual involvement .
the male juvenile is a middle-aged twit with lumbago , replaced by dick powell , the pretty tenor with secret wealth to hide .
danglard , on the other hand , goes from woman to woman , seducing them with the promise of fame , hooking them with what must have been a very persuasive endowment .
one has no doubt that he is heterosexual and quite active .
postcoital scenes abound.days after seducing nini away from paulo , he has discovered esther , a piaf type , and begun to prepare her for her job of singing the film 's theme song while he plays it on her fiddle .
that of course arouses nini 's jealousy just as she has aroused the jealousy of lola .
( and of course nini had already forsworn the privilege of being a czarina ! )
the whole movie is about how danglard 's concupiscence has cost him money but how even his troublesome horniness is subordinate to his love for the show -- how the audience demands devotion -- and it is this potent combination of phallic persuasion and tempting fame that makes danglard the hero , while asserting that a true lover of the show will never profit as much as the money men .
at the movie 's conclusion , danglard , having outfoxed the creditors and the jealous babes , approaches a new attraction watching the incredible ( and believe me , it is incredible ) performance of the cancan .
`` have you ever thought about being on the stage ? ''
he asks , and the curtain descends .
meanwhile , poor julian is sitting of the fire escape of the theatre listening to peggy sawyer 's new fans disparage his contribution to the show 's success .
( i wo n't even go into `` 42nd street '' 's central line , `` oh , guy , it was grand of you to come ! ''
) furthermore , i wo n't go into the glimpse one gets of legendary parisian entertainers , including a brief vision of piaf , nor of the vision of a paris both urban and rural .
certainly there is a sample of the styles that engendered trenet and aznavour .
but it is the memoir of an assertive and welcome masculinity , something unseen in any hollywood musical with which it might be compared , is a pleasant relief from the androgynes of 30 's hollywood musicals ( including my beloved fred astaire , not to mention dick powell ) , let alone the barf promulgated by mgm in movies like the repulsive `` american in paris . ''
all those fountains !
we 'll save our comparison of that turkey to `` breakfast at tiffany 's '' and its deconstruction of the american male for another day.that danglard may have been a hopeful vision , in postwar france , of a kind of hyper-masculine mec that may or may not have ever existed , is practically beside the point .
that he is a man 's man , neither john wayne nor edward everett horton , is perhaps more on target .
that he is a man who likes the ladies is never in question .
i , for one , would n't mind living his life at all .
i wonder if gabin was that lucky .
at the beginning of this comment i wanted to talk about baz luhrman and what sinclair lewis called `` boloney '' .
i never got that far .
baz 's moulin rouge ... well , paris does n't put that kind of stuff in the seine anymore .