`` the journey '' is a very good film .
produced in the spring of 1958 , in vienna , and released in 1959 , this movie was quite popular in his early years .
despite the political problems , which influenced the movie 's success ( because the story happens during the hungarian revolution , the cold war ) , `` the journey '' is a very good film , but not well-known .
i think it should be released immediately on dvd , because most of the people who have seen it so far want to have it at home .
one of the most important qualities of the film is the extraordinary chemistry between deborah kerr and yul brynner , their intense relationship .
all their scenes together are very important , but they also reveal the strong feelings , the great passion and love between the characters ( major surov and diana ashmore ) .
another quality is the script , which is very well written .
it was even published as a novel , by the screen player george tabori .
the film keeps its tension from the beginning to the end .
at first , we did n't know if diana and the other travelers could leave hungary , because the communist major discovers that diana 's friend , paul kedes , is hungarian and he is n't allowed to leave the country .
the major falls deeply in love with diana and this is , in fact , the true reason why he does n't want to let her go .
but after he embraces her and gives her one of the most memorable kisses ever seen on screen , and she kisses him , too , he lets her go .
and the end of the film is one of the most dramatic endings ever filmed-the major and diana say `` goodbye !
`` , she arrives at the frontier with all the travelers , including paul , while surov is shot several times by some hungarians , so he dies .
yul brynner is very , very handsome and deborah kerr is very beautiful , charming , refined , just like an english lady .
yul and deborah are perfect together .
they are one of the greatest couples of the golden hollywood .
a true moviegoer should watch this film .
`` the journey '' has everything that a good film should have-a great , captivating story , interesting characters , a wonderful direction ( anatole litvak is , in my opinion , at his best ) .
finally , i want to give a message to warner bros. studios or those who restore and release classic films : please , release `` the journey '' on dvd as soon as possible .