i have seen several yul brynner films -- yet this is his best performance as the camera captures his emotions in close up as he snarls , smiles , and laughs .
brynner might have been equally arresting in ten commandments , taras bulba , the magnificent seven , the brother karamazov and the mad woman of chaillot but none of these films have captured his range of talent in close ups as in this one .
he is arresting and tantalizing to watch in every shot.equally fascinating and sexy , without removing her clothes , is deborah kerr .
the script allows her to exude a sensuality that is not visual but suggestive -- she reprised this sort of role years later in the night of iguana .
the film does not suggest that she slept with anyone to help with the release of the group from the clutches of the russians in fact she is shown as running away from the russian major ( in contrast to the maupassant story or the isak denisen story ) .
yet the film bursts with suggested but real physical allure of the kerr character.kerr can never be classified as a beautiful actress in my view , but she is a superb actress .
she puts her soul into dignifying the characters that she portrays , which often clashes with the spirit of the character .
it is this contradiction that makes her roles in the journey , quo vadis , and the night of iguana memorable.why is this an unusual film ?
it is not easy in hollywood to see russian characters portrayed as good people -- dr zhivago was an exception .
brynner 's romance of a horse thief was again great cinema by abraham polonsky but never acknowledged as such because of the intolerance towards leftists in the post-mccarthy era.the film is also unusual in its casting -- great french actors gerard oury and anouk aimee -- rub shoulders with jason robards jr and british actor robert morley .
in many ways the film is international than american .
all four are great actors and add to the entertainment.those who have read maupassant and denisen 's works will find the film is not true to either work .
yet the film can stand on its own as its sanitized ( censored ? )
version has a dignified charm of its own -- provided by the reality of the night that led to the release of the group .
i think litvak deserves to have the last laugh in providing an interesting and plausible twist to the tales that led to the making of the film , while entwining bits of both written tales ( e.g .
the last bus ride and the final kiss ) but i do have one grouse -- why do hollywood never acknowledge the sources that inspire the stories ?
only recently ( e.g.
, insomnia ) have the original works begun to be mentioned prominently in the credits .