`` the journey '' is a romantic version of the cold war .
it 's about an english woman ( deborah kerr ) trying to smuggle her former love , a hungarian scientist ( jason robards , jr. ) , out of hungary during the hungary revolt in 1956. she 's on board a bus with thirteen other international people who are trying to get out of hungary through the austrian border.of course , the bus gets stopped by the russians for a security check .
the russian officer-in-charge ( yul brynner ) becomes attracted to the english woman ( deborah kerr ) and delays the trip .
of course , the russian officer knows the truth about the hungarian scientist posing as a british citizen , but he decides not to arrest the scientist because he is waiting for the english woman to come to him .
of course , this all sounds absurd , but it is a fun movie to watch .
despite the romantic flow of dialogue between mr. brynner and ms. kerr , which seems inappropriate in the situation that they are in , the movie becomes suspenseful and interesting .
the good acting overrides some of the silly dialogue .
perhaps , some people involved in the hungarian revolt would not appreciate this movie ; they would consider it a piece of fluff .
this is my favorite yul brynner role .
he speaks with his own , masculine voice and is very attractive , especially when he becomes vulnerable .
this is deborah kerr 's second time working with yul brynner since they made `` the king and i '' in 1956. they make a very attractive couple .
too bad they never worked again .
this was the second sexy role ms. kerr took since `` from here to eternity '' .
despite the fact that ms. kerr was wearing heavy winter clothes throughout the movie , she was very beautiful and sensual .
the fine supporting cast was headed by jason robards , jr. , in his first film role .
some of the international cast were recognizable , like for instance , robert morley from england .
however , the rest of the actors , i have never seen before or since , were just great in the movie .
in the background , it was fun to see senta berger , as one of the maids , speak a few lines of hungarian .
a few years later in 1966 , she was in a movie , `` cast a giant shadow '' , with yul brynner as his leading lady .
she is still working today .