i had actually considered investing in this movie when gorman was out drumming up funding .
i loved most of the script but did not like the ending .
gorman insisted the ending was as it had to be.seeing the completed movie i have to say i am amazed .
reading the script i had not imagined the acting ( and gorman 's directing ) would be as powerful and moving as it is here .
the two leads did an amazing job .
they were very believable and this movie is well worth watching just for the performances of these two amazing stars.now , for the spoiler and if you have not seen the movie please do n't read further as you need to see the movie first .
( i actually wish i had never read the script just so i could have experienced the movie ending first hand . )
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - spoiler i have two main problems with the movie .
first off , and i 'm sure i mentioned this when i read the script , the wife should have died .
if she were dead the ending would be much more believable .
as it is , we have this guy who has been agonizing over a woman who left him 'years ago . '
if she left him and he is still in love after so long he 'd have to be seriously delusional .
but he does n't come across that way in the script .
( there is also the problem of why he did not expend all this energy going after the wife he still loves . )
plus , if the wife were dead we would actually be able to believe that they had a fulfilling , reciprocating love , and therefore believe that the guy is devastated enough for the ending to be reasonable.however , i do n't buy daphne doing what she does in the ending .
i 'd need a heck of a lot of convincing to believe that this naive girl ( very naive for a whore but believable due to bohl 's performance ) did what she did .
the character is simply not cold enough .
and if she did this out of some kind of love , or something else , then there is a whole piece of the movie/story missing.much of this movie is reminiscent of `` sex , lies , and video tape . ''
i think it could have been as popular if gorman had chosen to give the movie a more believable ending .
so watch the movie , enjoy the performance .
and make up your own mind .