i am a film directors nightmare ... especially of the mega buck , multiplex variety .
while not a student of the art i still have a high threshold for disbelief suspension and buying into the film maker 's vision , if i can find it .
that 's why a gem such as 'you are alone ' is such an exhilarating find .
the intimacy and pacing drew me in and never let me go .
jessica bohl and richard brundage give thoughtful nuanced performances and director gorman bechard displays a deft hand in presenting what is an understandably disturbing day in the lives of two terribly damaged people.spoiler belowi bought the dvd version and have shared it with several people .
the reactions have been varied , from disbelief in the ability of daphne to complete the assignment for which buddy has paid her to an inability to watch the whole film because it was just too real and emotionally devastating .
as a compulsively skeptical moviegoer i have to be either grabbed by the collars and hauled for the ride or sidled up to and seduced by the filmmaker .
this film took the later route for me and by the end i was so involved that i felt daphne 's horror and pain at her role in buddy 's demise .
my reaction to this film reminded me of watching 'the cook , the thief , his wife and her lover ' by peter greenaway many , many years ago .
by the end i was fascinated and repelled and utterly unable to tear my eyes away from that film too .
i 've watched this film several times now and truly appreciate the eye and ear the director has demonstrated .
i am familiar with other works he has been done including a couple of cheeky movies , 'galactic gigolo ' and 'attack of the killer bimbos ' and a mixed bag 'the kiss ' which i recently learned was killed in the cradle by the producer and does n't really represent the directors vision .
too bad , because i loved the prior two films and even found 'the kiss ' interesting but wish 'the kiss ' was available in a director 's cut with all of the original vision and music in tact .
i look forward to future work by this interesting director and the leads jessica bohl and richard brundage .