you are alone is a beautiful , almost delicate film , smart directed , crisply written , with two complex and riveting performances , and a twist of an ending that no one will see coming , but will make you want to see the film a second time to go back and catch up on all the clues you misread.the story , about a highschool girl who drowns her depression and awkwardness by working a few hours a week as a $ 500 an hour `` schoolgirl '' escort , and the depressed next-door neighbor who discovers her secret and hires her for an afternoon call in a downtown new haven hotel , features breathtaking performances from both jessica bohl , as the girl , and richard brundage , as her neighbor.bohl as daphne gives a breakthrough performance on par with maggie gyllenhaal in secretary .
she so captures a teenager 's angst of growing into her own skin , and when she talks about always being in control , you start to realize she 's not in control at all , but in danger of going over the deep end , which i guess in a way she does.brundage as buddy is depressed , angry , heartbroken , a shell of a man .
but it is n't until the film 's startling conclusion that you grasp a full comprehension of his pain.after a very brief opening segment , which will hook most independent film lovers , and have the religious right running towards the exits , we are brought into the hotel room .
at first you 're not sure about these people , or the film-making style .
shaky , annoying ... like the characters .
until you realize their back story , told in short flashbacks .
they 're confrontational at first for a reason , and so is the camera .
but as they open up , as the story settles down , likewise , so does the camera .
and , i do n't know , 20 minutes in , give or take , you find yourself unable to take your eyes away from the screen.having just seen the world premiere screening at the brooklyn film fest -- where the director asked the audience if anyone expected the ending and not one person answered yes – i almost wish the film were already on video so i could watch it again .
because thinking back now on some of the conversations in the film , particularly a very candid dialog regarding fantasy and climax , i really thought things were going in a very different direction .
but i realize now so much of their conversation meant something completely different than what i imagined .
i need to see it again !
!
!
but as dark and sexual as much of the talk is , blunt to say the least , i found myself laughing more than i might have expected at some of its candor , which definitely falls into the `` things we think , but lack the nerve to say out loud '' category .
it 's very blunt , especially when you realize so much of it has a completely different meaning .
some of it will make you uncomfortable , especially if you 're watching you are alone with a partner .
you 'll definitely have something to talk about – perhaps argue about – afterwards .
perhaps it should come with a warning : you should be alone when watching !
the music is amazing .
i would have come home , and purchased the soundtrack at my favorite online music store if i could have .
the film looks as good as anything shot on film .
after the screening director gorman bechard was asked what sort of process he used to get the digital footage to look so good .
his answer : none .
they could n't afford it.i have to give bechard credit .
i am a big fan of his two shorts , the pretty girl and objects in the mirror , but even they could not have prepared me for the complexities and surprises of this film.to everyone involved : bravo .