some people are born with mourning souls with their song sung singularly until they encounter another soul as tortured and/or as bitterly sweetly beautiful as their own and an unusual magic happens .
you are alone is a brutally honest look into two tortured souls that intertwine for a moment of understanding and oneness only to be torn apart by the differences in the oneness between they 're pain .
death is explored figuratively and literally .
it is what happens when ones soul is dead or similarly too alive , too awake to reality .
it is the life not which you imagined behind the eyes of passer-by 's .
this film explores the aching pain in us all , the frown beneath the cheery facade , the ache below .
the ugly instinctual animalistic thoughts and acts become honest and matter of fact and then bechard sprinkles a dash of unexpected innocence and beauty into the mix knowing both linger in us all .
bechard , the writer , is a expert observer of the human condition and because of his non judgmental attitude presents life in a light we often shield our eyes from but yearn to see and understand .
he , as director , focuses on the nuances of the actors spirit that shines through the character they 're playing to the actors own personal familiarity with the emotions brought on by each situation .
this is the most accurately written and directed character portrayal of a man and woman 's experience together i have encountered as of yet , even though the two characters encounter is probably not the `` normal '' encounter.the soundtrack encapsulates in each songs lyrics what the characters would let their hearts spill out if able and strong enough .
it is each characters real voice sung through the beauty , pain , talent , and emotional intelligence of emerging indie artists ready to explode onto the alternative music market .
the perfect soundtrack for those of us with issues - those of us who admit that we have issues and those of us that hide it.i always enjoy exploring the darker sides of life with mr. bechard 's both fascinatingly creative and realistic view of life and the characters that revolve within it .