the 1980 's 'my dinner with andre , ' with wallace shawn and andre gregory , is essentially a dialog about the world and how it affects and can lift the spirit .
2005 's 'you are alone ' demonstrates how common worldly events can shatter the soul .
the story revolves around three principal characters .
there 's daphne , a pretty teenage student who frets about virtually every decision in her life .
then there 's the prostitute , or paid escort , britney , as self-confident as daphne is self-conscious .
what makes them interesting is that they share the same body , if not the same personae .
part of the magic of this film occurs in one of the early scenes where daphne approaches a door of an aged hotel room .
she halts and is obviously torn by the decision of whether or not to knock on the door – but it is britney that effortlessly glides into the room when the door is opened.on the other side of that door is buddy , a middle-aged nobody with few , if any , personal qualities that anyone would find attractive .
he goes so far as to be confrontational about britney 's chosen profession as soon as she enters the room .
however , we soon learn that buddy is daphne 's next-door neighbor and has watched through the years as she grew from little girl to womanhood .
this complicates things for the audience .
is buddy just being a concerned neighbor or does he want something else ?
if it 's sex that buddy wants , here it is .
britney loves sex .
her definitions may be clintonesque but that does n't lesson her enthusiasm .
she prefers older men and wears a rainbow of plastic wristbands that her clients are invited to chose from .
each color band denotes a specific act that she 'll perform – but exactly which act is n't revealed until after the band is broken off her wrist and the choice is irrevocably made .
britney is , or believes that she is , in control of every encounter .
even when blindfolded and bound , as she is by one of her regular clients , she imagines her arms and body being stroked by multiple men but her legs and pubic area being caressed by a woman in blood red lingerie .
the film 's imagery just keeps coming.buddy 's pathetic life is one of acceptance .
he 's lost his wife , his dog , even his fantasies of the pretty teenager next-door .
it 's no coincidence that he 's lured daphne or britney to this particular hotel room .
there 's a painting on the wall of a dinner plate with only a fish head left .
this is a perfect metaphor for buddy 's life ; all of the good parts are finished .
so it 's here , where he brought his wife when they were still college students , that he makes his stand – to regain some control of his own life , to make his statement.the director of 'you are alone , ' gorman bechard , knows his craft .
the principal action in the hotel room serves as a solid anchor for the film , assisted by a myriad of inter-cut scenes that add dimension to the characters , their circumstances and conflicts.as the film progresses , britney asks buddy if she should get undressed .
he says yes , but she strips only to her underwear .
an actual prostitute would probably remove all of her clothes ( one of the profession 's five gets ) .
but it is n't buddy that 's being teased , we are .
as the film concludes , we find that there are far deeper human emotions and motivations in play .
a tease does n't work unless it actually delivers .
britney does , so does 'you are alone ' .