jessica bohl plays daphne , the sexually precocious suburban teenager struggling with the hell of high school .
daphne 's neighbor is buddy ( richard brundage ) , a depressed middle-aged man still angry over loosing his wife .
daphne is attracted to world of prostitution because it promises to cure her of barely legal boredom and loneliness .
once buddy strips daphne of her secret , he hires her to help him accept the loss of his wife .
the entire film takes place at the hotel duncan , yet details of each character 's history are exposed through dialogue and flashbacks .
their appointment climaxes with the story 's concluding twist.both actors truly understand and become their particular character , delivering a convincing , sincere performance .
their on-screen chemistry , critical to the entire film , is genuine.the film 's dialogue is natural , real to life .
the writer , gorman bechard , undoubtedly did his homework because all references are industry and character-age appropriate .
daphne is intelligent , yet clearly still an eighteen year old .
buddy may be middle-aged , but still not the hackneyed naïve type normally depicted in film .
daphne and buddy 's conversation primarily deals with their despair and frustration with life , but is still comical at the right times .
although the general mood is very relaxed , the dialogue has its own vivacity , forcing the audience to become empathetic toward the character 's conditions and uncomfortable at their straightforward vulgarities.the incredible soundtrack truly captures the essence of the film .
each track commands sentiment , actually contributing to the scenes and characters .
even existing independently from the film , the compilation truly expresses you are alone 's central theme -- loneliness.you are alone is a less conventional piece that deals with of notions typically not spoken .
definitely worth seeing it 's the sort of thought provoking film that forces you to question your own threshold of loneliness .