there are times i am convinced that the mikado is the best sullivan & gilbert opera ever , but that is only so long as i 'm not listening to iolanthe .
be that as it may , the mikado is probably the most frequently filmed of the savoy operas .
( yes , i put the composer first .
nobody says hammerstein and rodgers , or hart and rodgers , or boito and verdi , or what's-his-face and strauss .
you do n't even hear the names of librettists for offenbach , suppe , or balfe .
gilbert was just the bigger name ( and the bigger ego ) at the time , so they put his name first .
it 's time that silly practice was put to rest.anyway , the mikado is a compleat s & g operetta .
it has some of sullivan 's catchiest numbers , combined with some of gilbert 's cleverest lyrics .
it has an interesting book and sprightly dialogue .
it 's got a wonderful degree of craziness .
and it leaves the door wide open for elaborate and whimsical costuming.this particular production , filmed in a live performance in 1990 , turns its imagination toward striking simplicity .
set in a british seaside resort toward the end of the art nouveau period , it throws over the japonerie of the original entirely .
the result is costuming and setting in an eye-caressing medley of whites , grey , and blacks , accented by occasional bits of red ( and less frequent uses of yellow and green ) .
it takes some getting used to , but it 's really spiffy .
of course , when the chorus tells you they are gentlemen of japan , you would be right to exclaim , `` oh , pooh .
bah ! ''
( did i just say that ? )
it 's most gratifying that this fine production is now on dvd .
however , one caveat : the print seems to be photographed through a glass of imperfect clarity , so that the expected sharpness of the image is softened and ever so slightly fuzzy .
the tendency to superimpose images is , alas , annoying .
why do people who are doing a really spiffy production want to muck it up with artsy-fartsy stuff of that sort ?
but it 's the performance that counts the most .
we may skip the overture , since although one is performed , sullivan never wrote one .
( true , it may be so he wrote none for any of the savoys .
but the mikado overture does n't even date from sullivan 's lifetime and was compiled by observing the techniques used in the others . )
as for the rest of the operetta , it 's first-rate and supremely funny.the ko-ko here is the estimable eric idle , who does it credit .
there is a tradition of bringing a big name into the role .
the was a u.s. tv production years ago in which ko-ko was played by groucho marx with mixed results .
idle 's performance is delightfully quirky ... he does `` taken from a county jail '' assisted by a tennis racquet .
his `` i 've got a little list '' is done as a speech to a microphone -- of course it has the usual updated lyrics , which are much funnier than the usual run of such things , and his delivery is positively hysterical .
it goes on that way throughout.in this operetta , it 's important to have a good katisha ; it 's just no fun if you 're not being bellowed at in style .
this mikado has a fabulous katisha in felicity palmer , in her way almost as big a name as idle .
she bellows with the best of them in a wonderful rich contralto ... wonderful , especially , for a soprano .
and her costume ... !
!
!
( not to mention her recital with franz liszt , apparently , accompanying . )
nanki-poo is played by bonaventura bottone .
i have trouble getting around is somewhat un-nanki-pooish chubby shortness -- but is voice is undeniably a solid , rich addition to the vocal palette .
there is a nice touch during `` a wand'ring minstrel '' , where the chorus reacts with distaste to the mention of `` his nancy on his knee '' -- bear in mind the mikado 's decree about flirting .
be that as it may , bottone is a fine singing actor and if his appearance does n't put the best face on nanki-poo , his performance does.yum-yum ( lesley garett ) and her friends are appropriately pretty and silly .
she and bottone do lovely duets .
pish-tush ( mark richardson ) plays his persona as something a blageur and does it very well .
poo bah ( richard van allan ) is wonderful as a stuffed shirt out of water ... a role later done to death in american sitcoms ( you know : haughty butlers forced to cater to bratty children -- that sort of thing ) .
the mikado ( richard angas ) is bloody marvelous , with an imperious voice at absolute variance with his ridiculous lyrics.i do n't recommend you get this as your only mikado .
get a good traditional production as well , so you can see what gilbert intended ( more or less ) in terms of staging .
that being said , i 'll watch this one twice while viewing any traditional bit once .
on the whole this is a terrific offering , a vocal and visual delight , with delicious over-acting .
it 's a dvd to treasure , with dervish-like maids , tap-dancing bellhops , and all .
watch for the bellhops with signs .