okay , sure , this movie is a bit on the hokey side .
it 's difficult to take characters from comic books and put them into movies with any credibility ( dolph lundgren as the punisher , anyone ? )
, but this tries very hard .
i 've never read the actual comic book , but that does n't really matter , i suppose .
i judge a film mainly on its merits , not on whether it is a faithful retelling of someone else 's idea .
( unless its a film based on a true story , that demands at least some attempt at truth and accuracy . )
so why will i give this movie a fairly high rating ?
because it tries .
it tries very hard .
in my book , that makes it a fair attempt at an entertaining film.many films have been made with vampire subject matter being the main focus .
it seems everybody has their take on vampire lore , be it the cross , the silver , the garlic , the aversion to sunlight , whatever .
some of those ideas are included here .
the storyline is familiar ... a group of vampires conspire to take over the world , with one person ( mainly ) standing in their way .
blade ( wesley snipes ) lives for the sole purpose of the destruction of the vampiric masses , who have slowly but surely moved into the world , and share it with humankind .
for the most part , the human race is blind to the fact that vampires exist all around them .
the vampires have even taken familiars , people who aspire to be vampires and do the vampires ' dirty work for them to show how worthy they are of eventually being `` turned .
`` now that i think of it , there are many elements of this movie similar to the storyline of the roddy piper film , they live .
a hidden enemy , hidden group of people plotting against them , the fight to save human-kind ... all that is present in blade as well.the acting is n't the best here .
snipes is , at best , only slightly better than some of his other roles ; n'bushe wright , a relative newcomer , is n't too bad ; kris kristofferson is forgettable as blade 's sidekick ( he 's to blade what chip is to the punisher ) .
stephen dorff does the best job of the whole cast here , as the `` head '' vampire you just love to hate.i do n't know , but i just loved the special effects in this film .
from the blood-soaked vampire-style rave , all the way to the inevitable fight at the finale of the film , the special effects are n't half bad .
there 's certainly enough blood and gore to go around , but after all , this is a vampire movie , right ?
the various shapes and sorts of weaponry blade uses are fairly unique , and not generally used in contemporary action films .
snipes has more flair with a decked-out sword than he does with , say , a machine gun .
plus , there 's so much more thought that goes into fighting with a blade than just blowing someone away .
( unless , of course , you are indiana jones . )
overall , this is n't the best action film ever made , but it 's not half bad , either .
as a bonus , the musical score & soundtrack are pretty cool , too .
tell me , in what other movies can you hear super drum'n'bass like source direct or photek ?
!
my rating : 8/10