overall , i give this film a decent 7.6. to start i 'll say i love how the character was portrayed and adapted on to the screen .
if you read comics occasionally or simply watch dvd extras you 'll see the blade character is drastically different from the one we see in the film .
among the changes , blade is now most importantly half vampire , therefore acquiring `` all of their strengths , but none of their weaknesses . ''
the credit for this goes obviously to david goyer , a fellow fan of the darker genre of comic books .
thanks to him blade has become a much more interesting character and i find him one of my favorite anti-heroes really .
wesley snipes is born to play this role , although some would 've probably pererred dezenel washington or will smith ( lol ) .
his acting here does n't need to be exactly oscar winning per say considering the character but i 'm glad he decids to play the daywalker in the two sequels .
also starring is stephen dorff as our main villain and kris kristofferson as blade 's alfred so to speak .
the acting is good actually and the action keeps the plot going for sure .
the opening scene in the club is one of my favorite parts i 've got to say .
as much as like this movie there are few things that bother me which take away from this film ranking with something like `` spider-man '' or `` x-men '' .
stephen norrington had the villains portrayed in a way i did n't like so much honestly .
their lines were so full of foul mouthed comedy it did n't really feel like a comic book film to me .
plus `` la magra '' a bit disappointing as the final villain but the intense sword fight makes up for it i guess .
not to mention a sense of extra non-realism : a black man in a leather coat with a sword beaing the # $ % ^ out of a cop in broad day light some how going unnoticed by the crowds walking by seemed kinda..well ... dumb .
moving away from a few of its flaws , the music by mark isham was great and fitted the film nicely .
luckily all these problems are fixed and improved on in the stunning sequel , `` blade 2 '' .