it seems to me that a lot of people do n't know that blade is actually a superhero movie on par with x-men , daredevil , punisher and the likes .
what all these heroes ( and in the case of x-men hero group ) have in common is that they were all conceived in the magical world of marvel .
blade was originally a normal person ( in a blue outfit ) who chased vampires because of a personal grudge and eventually facing of with dracula himself and he was for lack of a better word boring .
so boring in fact that the character was shelved and in fact never used in the marvel universe .
at least until he was reinvented.david goyer did a stroke of genius when he took the character of blade and turned him into a leather clad dark knight .
he ca n't take all the credit though and much of this must go to stephen norrington as well who with his distinct visual style brings out the best of the character .
the blade character ( wesley snipes ) is pretty amazing in this film and mixes martial arts with batman like darkness .
snipes is pretty good as the title character and is successful in bringing out the duality and inner demons of the character .
he is , however , a pretty rigid actor both in voice and in posture and is only interesting enough for one film ( which is clearly seen from the inferior sequels ) .
kris kristofferson is good as well and really brings the tormented character of whistler to life with energy and sense of timing .
n'bushe wright , however , is fairly weak as a leading lady making her character relatively flat and lifeless .
donal logue is pretty funny and manages to do a lot with a minor character .
german , udo kier , should also be mentioned as he brings a lot of finesse and style to the vampire race , probably born of his experiences from playing dracula .
stephen dorf provides the best acting in the film and his chilling performance as deacon frost stands as one of the best screen villains i have perhaps ever seen.the story is good and , i feel , renews the vampire genre ( something that has n't been done since robert rodrigues ' from dusk till dawn ) by adding a lot of contemporary elements and maintaining the comic book feel .
by saying that the film has a comic book feel does not mean that the film is unrealistic .
far from it .
a lot of effort has been put in trying to make the film seem as real as possible .
including the effects which are pretty good for their time .
i found the vampire `` dustings '' to be a very nice touch .
in stead of adding a lot of blood when a vampire dies norrington chose to let the vampires spontaneously com-bust which looks great .
the fact that the overall effects were well done adds to the credibility of the film which would otherwise have fallen flat on its face.as previously stated norrington has a very distinct visual style that sets him apart from the directors of the following blade movies .
del toro is nearly as skilled but i prefer norrington 's style .
his style gives the film a very special look and feel but most importantly it gives the film atmosphere .
a very tense dark atmosphere which works great in tune with the main character and story .
along with the visual style the music which also works fine and adds a lot to the atmosphere of the movie.all in all blade is a very entertaining movie that should probably have had an 8 from me but a few annoying flaws ( which can not be revealed without spoiling the movie , suffice to say , many of them are located near the ending of the film ) does that the film must settle with a high 7.7/10