now here is a movie that does something that has n't been done in a long time .
it take ten or so different elements that we 're already familiar with ( vampires , martial arts , a techno beat , top-o-the-line special effects , etc . )
, and turns it into something that feels brand new .
in what could have easily been merely a combination of `` mortal kombat '' and `` buffy : the vampire slayer , '' wesley snipes ( no favorite of mine since and mostly because of `` passenger 57 '' ) gives a really good turn as the half human/ half bloodsucker .
he acknowledges the internal conflict , but does n't dwell on it more than necessary .
he makes blade as deep a character as michael keaton made batman.i 'll say that the only part of the movie that got me a little miffed was the always present horror movie cliche of that one person that the hero happens to know who happens to know exactly how to stop the evil guy .
on the other hand , you sort of have to have that in a movie like this , so it 's easily excusable.well , snipes is good .
and steven dorff , hyped in the previews , makes a more than bad enough bad guy to snipes ' hero .
he 's got class , presence , and enough control in his little pinky to teach al pacino how to tone it down a bit .
who would ever think that a comic book movie would be a launching pad for an actor ?
i sincerely hope this is .
and whoa !
where the heck did kris kristofferson get acting talent ?
do n't get me wrong , but the prolific actor has n't done anything memorable since `` millennium , '' and how many of us watched that just 'cause of the cool video box ?
well , here he is , folks , in a very obi-wanish turn , as blade 's mentor and father figure .
and good job , too.the quality of the acting is matched by the quality of the choreography and special effects .
accompanied by a pulsing techno beat , the fight scenes brings back and quickly banish memories of mortal kombat .
hey !
it had a script , too !
i was wondering what had happened to all the good writers out there.the two major indications to me that i saw a quality flick were these ; i had no feeling of remorse about paying full price to get in , a la any schumacher `` batman , '' `` the avengers , '' `` mk : annihilation , '' `` godzilla , '' or `` armageddon . ''
( wow , how many of those came out this year ?
ugh ) also , i look forward to the inevitable sequel , as per the film 's ending .
let 's just hope they do as good a job with it as with the first one .