i must confess that i 've been a huge fan of the almighty david `` the hoff '' hasselhoff ever since he starred in the hit 80 's tv series `` knight rider . ''
whether it 's his extraordinary debut as a libidinous high school basketball player in the hilariously raunchy `` revenge of the cheerleaders '' or his brilliant portrayal of a dashing prince in the schlocky sci-fi gem `` starcrash , '' the hoff has proved time and time again that he 's a simply terrific ( and shamefully underrated ) actor supreme .
the hoff excels here as gary , a cynical and skeptical photographer who along with his repressed virginal writer girlfriend leslie ( attractive brunette leslie cummings ) investigates a seedy dilapidated haunted hotel located on a remote island off the coast of massachussetts .
they 're doing research on witchcraft throughout the ages and the hotel 's last owner was an actress who allegedly practiced the black arts .
a bickering family also shows up on the premises to check out the hotel .
pretty soon various folks begin to get bumped off in assorted gruesome ways by the mysterious lady in black ( an effectively eerie hildegard knef ) .granted , the rest of the cast gives the hoff a run for his money : the ever-perky linda blair projects her customary charming flair as a spunky pregnant woman who winds up becoming possessed ( natch ! )
, legendary jazz singer annie ross bitches it up with gleeful aplomb as a snippy old bat ( poor annie winds up being incinerated alive after she has her lips sewn shut and she 's hung upside down in a chimney ) , and gorgeous blonde catherine hickland oozes considerable sex appeal from every fetching pore as a lusty slut .
fabrizio laurenti 's competent direction , a suitably creepy atmosphere , gianlorenzo battaglia 's slick , glossy cinematography ( the fluid prowling steadicam tracking shots are especially nice ) , the gaudy special effects , carlo maria cordio and randy miller 's spirited shuddery'n'spooky score , and the gory , sadistic violence are all up to par .
but ultimately it 's the tremendously dynamic and charismatic presence of the one and only the hoff which makes this choice tasty chunk of tacky italian horror cheese such a winner : he takes his shirt off once ( hubba hubba ! )
, gets sprayed with blood , and -- warning : major *spoiler* ahead -- even meets a pleasingly grisly untimely end .
produced by none other than joe d'amato , this picture overall rates as good , sleazy fun .