linda blair has been acting for forty years now , and while she will never escape the part of regan macneil in `` the exorcist '' , few of her subsequent horror films have used her legendary status to such great effect as `` witchery '' does .
she plays jane brooks , a pregnant single woman who travels with her family to an abandoned island hotel that her parents want to purchase .
they are accompanied by a couple of real estate agents ( catherine hickland and rick farnsworth ) and upon arriving at the island they meet a photographer ( david hasselhoff ) and his writer girlfriend ( leslie cumming ) who are illegally squatting in the hotel while investigating the legend of a local witch ( hildegard knef ) .
it seems that a long-ago witch-hunt resulted in her suicide , and she was with child at the time .
unaware of the danger , jane has recently dreamt of the witch 's dramatic death , and jane 's little brother tommy ( michael manchester ) has been more directly visited by her spooky , black-clad spirit , which he calls 'the lady in black ' .
the group 's time at the island inn begins quietly enough ; unknown to them , however , the lady in black has already dispatched the captain of their hired boat ( george stevens ) .
before long , the isolation and cold begin to affect everyone , and it is during this period of moodiness and tension that the lady in black begins her reign of terror .
she plans to avenge her own fate by possessing jane and sacrificing her companions and her unborn child .
each of her other victims fulfills an aspect of her vengeful curse - greed , lust , and the blood of a virgin .
as the sun goes down and the sea becomes wild , she haunts them one by one in gruesome , horrifying ways .
the island location is effectively scary , and the inn is very creepy and hauntingly shot .
it 's such a colorful film that it reminds me of dario argento 's work .
the lighting is excellent , and the set decoration is perfectly spooky .
the soundtrack is very effective and unique .
the horror effects are extreme , terrifying , and unforgettable .
the cinematography is great , and it is this that brings us back to linda blair .
the creative team behind this film shoots her like a horror star should be shot : lots of dramatic push-ins , lingering close-ups that subtly detail jane 's incremental possession , and moments that are reminiscent of other great horror films .
there are hidden homages to `` rosemary 's baby '' , `` jacob 's ladder '' , `` the shining '' , `` black sunday '' , and of course `` the exorcist '' .
she does a great job , and absolutely steals the show with her moody and understated performance .
that is n't to say that the rest of the cast disappoints ; catherine hickland is sexy and very good , and veteran performer annie ross is memorable as jane 's bitchy mother rose .
hasselhoff gives it his best , but he is not essentially a film star , and his television persona gets in the way of his performance .
blair and young michael manchester have a wonderful chemistry together .
the film is otherwise so violent and creepy ( in a good way ) that it desperately needs their warmth ( blair also played a mother in 2003 's `` monster makers '' , and her maternal scenes in that film have the same tender feeling to them ) .
lastly , hildegard knef ( in one of her last roles ) plays a great witch , and she has the most amazing voice and accent .
along with blair , she was also perfectly cast .
but it 's blair 's movie all the way .
jane brooks also seems to have some psychic ability , and this aspect of the film hearkens back to `` exorcist ii : the heretic '' .
i think `` witchery '' is up there with `` the exorcist '' , `` exorcist ii '' , `` hell night '' , and `` summer of fear '' as blair 's best genre work to date .