witchery , or witchcraft as it 's commonly known in europe , beings with jane brooks ( linda blair ) waking up from a nightmare involving a witch .
jane 's mother & father rose ( annie ross ) & freddie ( robert champagne ) are interested in buying an old deserted hotel on an island about 50 miles from boston , renovating it & reopening it .
together with jane & their young son tommy ( michael manchester ) rose & freddie are planning to travel to the island with an architect named linda sullivan ( catherine hickland ) to check on the amount of work that needs doing , they also meet up with the estate agent jerry giordano ( rick farnsworth ) & hire a local fisherman named sam ( george stevens ) to take them to the island .
once there they enter the hotel & begin to inspect the property while back on the boat sam is killed & the boat is let loose to sail off into the distance .
they discover two unexpected guests in the shape of a photographer named gary ( david hasselhoff ) & his virgin fiancé leslie ( leslie cumming ) who happens to be researching a book that she is writing about the gruesome legends & superstitions surrounding the infamous island & hotel .
as the night draws on a raging storm outside isolates them from the mainland as a mysterious 'lady in black ' ( hildegard knef ) keeps popping up as the ancient evil that resides in the hotel seeks fresh victims for demonic possession , human sacrifice & satanic rites ... the director of this american italian co-produced film is somewhat shrouded in mystery as the imdb lists fabrizio laurenti as martin newlin but there are rumours that joe d'amato did the honours , either way to be honest despite it 's bad reputation i found witchery quite entertaining in a so-bad-it's-good cheesy sort of way .
the script credited to harry spalding & daniele stroppa on the imdb again is confusing too as the actual credit on the film itself is daniel davis , anyway whoever wrote this thing did a decent job , please stop laughing .
at heart it 's a haunted house horror but adds some gory deaths & a surreal feeling to everything .
the different sets of characters have reasonable motives & did n't get on my nerves as much as i 'd thought they might , it 's not plotted very well , it does n't make a whole a lot of sense & the dialogue is n't exactly top drawer stuff but as a whole witchery entertained me for it 's 95 odd minute duration plain & simple .
it 's reasonably well paced , a little slow to get going maybe but there are plenty of surreal , bizarre goings-on & gruesome deaths to keep one amused .
one part of witchery which destroys some of it 's credibility is this so-called storm , there is no storm in sight & the sea is probably calm enough to swim in , witchery 's supposed 'twist ' ending did n't really work for me either & just check out the dumb expression on cummings face on that final freeze-frame .
the hotel provides for a good isolated location & adds a certain atmosphere to the film which has the distinctive indefinable 'horror ' feel throughout , cheap horror at that .
technically witchery is not too bad at all , it was obviously shot on location so it looks good throughout & while not exactly the pinnacle of film-making finesse it 's overall production values are slightly better than expected .
the violence & gore is of typical euro explicitness , a woman has her lips sewn shut & hung inside a fireplace so she ca n't scream as the others light it , someone is crucified & then burned alive , impaled on a swordfish , someones veins expand & pop & a woman is raped by a man with no lips .
witchery was shot in english so there is no dubbing , as far as acting goes david hasselhoff & linda blair in the same film what more can i say ?
!
yes ladies hasselhoff does take his shirt off & for the lads cummings takes hers off .
both hasselhoff & blair are a hoot to watch in this thing , however the little kid is very annoying & really ca n't act at all .
i sure most sane film-goers will disagree with my opinions but i still stand by the fact that i liked it & would happily watch it again , witchery is pretty good fun & definitely worth a watch if your into 'bad ' films or your a horror fan in general .