during the making of this movie i once caught a statement on television about it .
something like : `` is killinggänget now taking off nazism ?
`` so , my comprehension of this movie , was from the beginning to get a notion of nazism .
when recently seeing this movie in the tv-version i had this filter before me and it was n't difficult to see this.strangely enough i have n't met this way of interpreting the film ever since i first heard it.these are the things i found in `` four shades of brown '' .
in all four of the stories the lack of empathy leads to disaster:1. the crematory-worker shows no realistic empathy to the dead animals or to those who had to say goodbye to them .
in the crematory-room in dealing with death and fire it 's almost like a cheerful game to him .
the seriousness of death and fire is not emphasized by the father and his boy accordingly , in ignorance pushes a button that leads to the disaster that injures his father severely.possible lesson : the importance of showing the young adequate emotions .
when they grow up they need to know what behavior leads to disaster and what emotions lead to good.2.the magician maneuvers his wife like an invisible puppeteer .
just when she thinks she has begun to cut off the strings to the masters hand , reaching for personality , integrity and joy , he pulls hard and she is back in desolation and despair.their son has tried to revolt in creating his own life with perfection and `` good '' taste in opposite to his parents `` bad '' taste .
the real problem he is carrying within is far from comprehensible to him : his fathers behavior passes on when suffocating his own wife in his spotless environment.possible lesson : oppression breeds bondage.3.the father who was abused as a child passes on sadism to his children when he cheats them on their inheritance .
he robs them of their childhood and in the end even of their inheritance.possible lesson : when no love given you can not give any.4.the fathers abuse of his daughter creates in her a ruthless revenger with sadistic aggression .
here the ice cold nazi-sadism becomes very obvious in physical violence .
it gives a possible background and a somewhat plausible explanation to the actions of young `` scin-head '' -nazists behavior when oppressing others .
possible lesson ?
: can nazism take birth in a pervert home ?
can the hideous consequence of ignoring empathy in family life , in the long run , be that room is given to sadistic nazism ?
very seldom does a movie contains so much .
it reveals little by little as i meditate on it .
i consider it brilliantly `` painted '' and the actors are superb .
especially the nice-seeming bloke played by ulf brunnberg that turns out to be the worst of all..