this movie was very good , not great but very good .
it is based on a one man play by ruben santiago hudson..yes he played most of the parts .
on paper it looks like stunt casting .
yes let 's round up all the black folks in hollywood and put them in one movie .
halle berry even produced it .
the only name i did n't see was oprah 's , thank god because it probably would of ended up being like a hallmark movie .
instead this movie was not some sentimental mess .
it was moving but not phony , the characters came and went with the exception of her husband , pauline and the writer in question .
the movie revolved around the universe of nanny , mrs bill crosby and how she raised the writer and took in people .
now being a jaded new yorker when he said she took in sick people and old and then we see them going to a mental institution to pick up a man , i 'm thinking looks like sister has a medicare scam going .
getting folks jobs and taking the medicare/caid checks but no she explains to lou gosset she just wants 25 bucks a week and did not want the money ahead of time .
i think that part was put in the movie just for us jaded new yorkers so we know she is not scamming the poor folks .
( g ) it was written by a new yorker so he knows the deal ( g ) .. she almost seems angelic and looking through a little boys eyes i can see why .
she is married to a ne'er do well who is 17 years younger and fools around on her .
terrence howard was born to play these type of parts .
he was good but i would like to see him play something different .
markerson who plays nanny is also very good .
but for some reason the person who stood out to me was a small role played by jeffery wright .
where is this mans oscar ?
he already won a emmy and a tony .
he was in shaft and he stole the movie .
i did not even know who he was in this movie .
he is a chameleon never the same .
i never seen him play a bad part yet .
this was a 5 minute role and he managed to make me both laugh and cry .
i re-winded the scene few times ..one time because i did n't know who he was .
his wife carman ejogo was excellent .
i have seen her in roles before mostly mousy stuff .
but she is so good here .
i actually know people who act just like her .
so it was very real to me macy grey who had one of the bigger parts was also very good .
i was very happy that they did not kill nanny off .
i thought she was a goner in the beginning of the movie .
but she was able to go home and start her old routine of taking care of people .
there are women like that in most of our lives .
people we might know or even lived with .
thank god for them , i do not know how they do it all of the time .
i have a friend who lost 2 children and been through a lot of stuff but whenever i am feeling selfishly sorry for myself i call her and she always puts me in a good mood .
this movie is a tribute to all of those people .
i only wish they they told us what happened to some of the characters like the the one armed man , paulines boyfriend who is played by one of my favorite actors on hbo 's the wire , omar , rosie perez 's character and richard the lesbian and delroy lindo 's one arm man , he was mesmerizing in another small role .