first of all , before i start my review , i just read every review for 'the muppet movie ' here and i ca n't believe that someone could give a negative review to a movie like this .
( fortunately there was only one . )
i mean , i can understand how someone may not like 'star wars ' due to the whole sci-fi genre , but to not like a movie starring some of the most lovable puppets in the history of mankind is almost sad .
okay , i will step off my soapbox now and review this movie .
'the muppet movie ' came out when i was seven .
all of my friends wanted to see this as their birthday movie , so i think i saw it about four times in the first month in theaters.as a child many things attracted me to this and all the other muppet movies & tv shows .
the singing was probably the main one .
most of the songs in 'the muppet movie ' are classics .
from `` rainbow connection '' to `` i 'm going to go back there someday '' , they 're entertaining and thought-provoking.as an adult i see 'the muppet movie ' in almost a whole different light .
yes , the things that thrilled me about it as a kid are still there , but it 's the little jokes and such that are just plain hilarious.i mean , when you think about it , jim henson is a sick man .
kermit is a frog and that is in love with a sweet pig that wears purple gloves and could karate chop you into two pieces .
fozzie is a stand-up comedian bear .
gonzo is a 'whatever ' that is infatuated with chickens .
then you have two old guys that heckle , a piano-playing dog , a rock band with a maniac drummer , a swedish chef that you ca n't understand and a number of other characters that are just plain eccentric.yet , for these reasons and more , henson has entertained millions of children and adults , giving us all something special to watch and remember him by .
'the muppet movie ' will always remain in my heart for many reasons , but i think the biggest one is because it 's a movie , unlike a lot of recent children 's movies , that i feel comfortable to have my kids watch .
plus , i do n't get bored out of my mind with jokes that are dumbed down to my kids ' level.it 's a great movie that is sure to be remembered forever .