this wonderful movie captures so many elements of what makes a family comedy funny , entertaining , sweet and memorable , it 's difficult to decide where to start.from the opening number , `` rainbow connection , '' paul williams 's excellent score sung with gusto by kermit d. frog , which gives us a prologue of what the whole adventure is about , throughout the story , this is one fun movie.essentially , it 's a road trip movie , where kermit travels cross-country with a dream of pursuing a `` rich and famous contract '' to entertain .
along the way , our green hero meets a series of other aspiring actors , comedians , singers , and musicians , who coincidentally , are muppets like kermit himself .
is this how the muppets really started ?
`` approximately how it happened , '' kermit tells us.not since `` it 's a mad , mad , mad , mad world '' has the cameo formula been used so prolifically and successfully .
the aspiring stars encounter many recognizable faces during their odyssey ; some just blink across the screen , but others have very memorable cameos .
steve martin 's amusing bit as a rude waiter is probably the best .
puppeteer jim henson 's nod to his inspiration , edgar bergen , is especially touching.anyone who ever watched the muppets tv show will get to see all of their favorite characters , they 're all here .
the puppetry work is magnificent ; look especially for kermit riding a bicycle ( how dey do dat ?
?
? )
in-jokes and references to old movies are everywhere , but the best one-liners are reserved for kermit himself .
an example : when the crooks are terrorizing kermit and piggy , she affectionately says to her short , green , and handsome beau , `` i would n't give up this evening together for anything , would you ? ''
`` uhhh , make me an offer ... . ''
i also love the gunfight at the ok corral scene : brilliantly absurd silliness.
got ta get `` movin ' right along '' now , but to summarize : a good natured movie that can be enjoyed by anyone , regardless of age or movie genre taste .
highly recommended .