if i rate the film maybe a bit high , you can blame it on sentiment .
this is one of the first movies that i remember seeing and totally loving .
i saw it at the drive-ins here in california in the late 70s .
i was already a big fan of `` the muppet show '' on tv so i was primed for the movie , and the movie did not disappoint .
basically it takes the whole absurdist ethos of the muppet show and transports it from vaudeville into a road movie .
kermit the frog is on a quest to become famous ; not because he wants to take champagne baths and ride in a private jet , but because he wants to `` make millions of people happy . ''
of course.along the way he picks up all his beloved muppet friends , most endearingly fonzie bear who he meets at a seedy bar doing stand-up .
they sing `` movin ' right along '' , a song that has always charmed me with its upbeat melody and its theme of friendship and shared discovery .
he also encounters enough hollywood movie stars to fill a stanley kramer movie , including comedy luminaries like richard pryor , steve martin , edgar bergen , milton berle , and mel brooks .
brooks in particular has a rather dull bit , and you are left feeling that henson could have cut a few of these cameos out if he was n't afraid of offending the stars .
anyway , as befits a road trip movie like this the very first person he meets is dom deluise.the ending is one of the more odd examples of literally breaking down the 4th wall that you will find in any `` children 's '' movie .
the hollywood dream seems to be crumbling all about them , when a real rainbow pierces the hollywood set with its authentic joy and mystery .
i 'm sure this was meant to relate to some of jim henson 's own personal or spiritual experiences.this is the best movie with muppets by a long shot .
if you or anyone else was wondering why the muppets were so popular back in the 70s , considering how poor the movies have been for the last few decades , i think this film has at least aged well enough to provide a clue .