a bunch of full-length movies featuring the muppets , created by jim henson & co , have been made , but `` the muppet movie '' was the first one of them all , and the first in the original trilogy , which also features `` the great muppet caper '' and `` the muppets take manhattan '' .
it was released seven years before i was born , so i obviously did n't get to see it at the time ( nor did i get to see its two successors when they were first released ) .
however , i saw a lot of the muppets during my childhood , mostly after henson 's premature death in 1990. i finally got around to seeing this movie for the first time around the mid-nineties , after hearing the soundtrack .
unsurprisingly , i liked it at the time , and revisiting it in recent years has n't exactly been disappointing.one day , while kermit the frog sits in a swamp with his banjo after singing `` rainbow connection '' , a hollywood agent named bernie comes by in a boat and urges him to pursue a career in tinseltown .
kermit takes his advice and goes west .
he soon meets fozzie bear , an unsuccessful stand-up comedian in a restaurant , and convinces him to come along .
the frog is also noticed by doc hopper , the owner of a frog leg restaurant chain who wants kermit to be his mascot .
as a frog , kermit is disgusted by this , so he refuses and leaves with fozzie .
on their road trip across the country , kermit and fozzie meet other muppets who join them , including miss piggy ( who soon becomes kermit 's love interest ) and gonzo .
unfortunately , as they all try to make their way to hollywood , doc hopper , assisted by max , is willing to do anything to force kermit to become his restaurant chain 's mascot , so kermit finds himself in increasing danger !
one thing many people praise this film for is the songs , and i can understand why .
there is , of course , the oscar-nominated `` rainbow connection '' at the beginning , and more good tunes follow , such as kermit and fozzie 's catchy road song , `` movin ' right along '' , and `` i 'm going to go back there someday '' , a poignant ballad sung by gonzo .
`` never before , never again '' , the song miss piggy sings when she first sees kermit , is the only one i would consider rather weak , and their romance seems awfully sudden .
the muppets in this movie are generally lovable , just like they are on tv , and some of them provide a lot of the humour , including fozzie , making his first appearance in the film hopelessly trying to entertain people in a restaurant with his stand-up , and , well , if you 're familiar with these famous muppets , you should know what to expect from each of them .
some of the live actors who appear briefly in the film can also be funny , such as dom deluise as bernie the agent and steve martin as the `` insolent waiter . ''
also , it 's not 100 % comedy .
there are serious parts of the film which they also did well.watching this original muppet movie again this year was my first time watching any of them since seeing `` muppets from space '' ( one of the muppet movies made after henson 's death , released in 1999 ) for the first time last year .
i was very disappointed when i saw that film , which had never happened before when i watched any film or tv show featuring the popular puppet characters !
not only is that movie not very funny , i also think it 's a tad too dark and cruel for the muppets , as i stated in my review of it !
however , i ca n't say i think the same of any of that movie 's predecessors , including this one , released twenty years earlier .
`` the muppet movie '' seems to be the most popular of the bunch , and since it has so much to like , not just for kids , that 's understandable .
i highly doubt there 's much left to say about `` the muppet movie '' that has n't been said at some point in the past thirty years , but today , it remains good family entertainment .