who does n't love the muppets ?
!
impossible it is to watch them without getting some kind of warm , fuzzy feeling inside .
so , i guess what 's important is that this movie seemed to very successfully capture what makes the muppets so special .
i do n't remember much about the details of the plot but the various moments and characters in the film i recall quite fondly .
in fact , there was quite a nostalgic atmosphere to the whole movie but without being self-conscious in any bad way .
refreshing for someone who possibly gets too hung up on meticulous details and technique ; the `` magic '' transcends all that other stuff .
't is indeed what movies are made of.so , how does the film achieve these things ?
hmmm , nice question !
stumped am i ?
let 's see .
really , i feel like it 's quite simple .
the filmmakers believe in their material and do n't take themselves too seriously in the process .
i probably would n't say the film has many truly inspired moments , but it does have a certain life to it ( that funnily enough a great many `` real people '' movies lack ) .
a zest .
you really want to believe in these funny little people and their adventures .
they also have a certain innocence about them that makes them all the more endearing.generally i get the impression that the people that made the movie just were n't afraid to try whatever felt right to them at the time which gives the whole thing quite a loose feel .
kind of like a really accessible and enjoyable extended jazz session .
lots of talent , little predictability and plenty of warm personalities coming through .
the cameos were of course a bunch of nice surprises for instance .
maybe i do n't feel i have much to say about it because i was half-asleep when i saw it ( and/or as i write this review ) .
anyway , i 'm sort of semi-repeating myself here but i really liked the sense of family the movie had .
full of love i suppose you might say .
again , a feeling of nostalgia comes to mind which not many films manage to achieve so effectively or effortlessly.and to repeat myself once more , one of the film 's best charms is its very relaxed and welcoming atmosphere .
like the nathaniel hawthorne quote about happiness being ( like ) a butterfly , so the muppet movie greatly succeeds partially by not seeming to try to do so .
same with beauty being best undiscovered or untouched or unforced or something like that .
anyway , if that sounds sappy , i also reckon it was pretty hilarious.so , all in all , this movie was very funny , touching and difficult not to smile along to .
plus it features lots of great music !
highly recommended to all humans , both the young and the young at heart .