minor spoilersmisunderstood classic remains one of henson 's finest and most personal films .
it may seem funny to call a movie as beloved as this one 'misunderstood , ' but people do seem to remember this one mostly for jerry juhl 's snappy screenplay and paul williams 's knockout songs .
now while these things are admittedly great , as is the movie 's formal playfulness ( screenplay-within-the-screenplay , film break , etc . )
, what distinguishes 'the muppet movie ' from the other muppet films is the serious , wistful thread that runs through the picture .
it 's a road movie , all right , but like most road movies , the pleasure is in the getting there , and the achievement of the characters ' goals is tempered by uncertainty , and by the knowledge that they can never really go back again .
throughout the film , we are shown the down side of show business , even before the muppets have 'made it ' : piggy abandons kermit without a second thought at a phone call from her agent , gonzo expresses the loneliness and regret of a performer 's life on the road in his haunting 'i 'm going to go back there someday , ' and , worst of all , kermit is continually tortured and tested by doc hopper , who wants him to commercialize his art for the unholiest of purposes .
( one can only wonder what henson would have made of his family 's management of the company after his death . )
kermit himself agonizes over his choices in the desert conversation scene , and the final 'magic store ' number questions whether it 's all been worth it , before concluding that it probably does n't matter either way .
all this is punctuated with the expected muppet chaos and satire and deliciously awful jokes , and of course the serious stuff would n't work if it were n't .
but 'the muppet movie ' is n't just another jokefest , as the rest of the diminishing-return muppet films would become .
no , it 's a lovely , gentle metaphor about the relationship between art and entertainment and business , and it 's every bit as effective today as it was 25 years ago .
9.5 out of 10 .