the main reason for watching this picture is to savor the brilliant performance of s. ephata merkerson .
ms. merkerson dominates this film with her tremendous presence as nanny , the woman who believes in doing good , no matter to whom , with no strings attached .
this actress clearly shows a range that is amazing.thanks to director george wolf for bringing this distinguished cast of some of the best black americans actors together .
this ensemble group under his tight direction help create the right atmosphere in which the action takes place.of course , none of this would have been possible if ruben santiago hudson had n't written his wonderful play .
working with mr. wolf , perhaps the best theater director of this generation , they have opened the play in a way that it evokes that not too distant past where a child lives under the influence of ms. crosby , when his own parents are not around to take care of him .
ms. crosby becomes the adoring mother of little ruben ; in a way , he represents her reward for having lost her own daughter.unfortunately , there is no time to develop some of the characters , as the action solely concentrates in enhancing the relationship between nanny and the young ruben , played with such charm by the young marcus carl franklin , who is a natural .
the only thing that could have been done differently was the voice over narration that is at times intrusive , as it does n't clarify , or justify what one is seeing .
frankly , just by watching the interaction of the players , is self explanatory.in the background there is always music .
no matter what hard times these people are going through , but nanny 's house is full of laughter and that glorious music that takes us back to that era.aside from ms. merkerson , other notable performances are given by terrence dashon howard , one of the rising stars of the moment .
mos def , jeffrey wright , marcy gray , louis gossett jr. , delroy lindo , rosie perez , carmen ejogo , jimmy smits and the rest.ms .
s. ephata merkerson deserves to be seen by a wider audience .
in `` lackawanna blues '' , she clearly demonstrates she can do anything she wants because of her enormous talent and charisma .