mikio naruse 's examination of the lives of three idling , constantly complaining , single ex-geishas in post-war japan is a wonderful character piece .
they used to be friends in the old days but now their relationship is strained because one of the women has become a successful moneylender and the other two owe her .
although the moneylender is the only one who has become successful in this rebuilding economy , she is the only one of the three that has no children .
the other two each have a child whom they depend upon for income , because neither of them work .
complications ensue when the kids decide to get married ( though not to each other ) and leave home .
this leads to the bitter , grumbling old women to become even more bitter and grumbling , getting drunk and bemoaning their rotten children and inconsiderate friend the moneylender .
meanwhile the moneylender is herself unhappy , despite her fortunes .
she has no one besides her young deaf maid to keep her company and chance encounters with two former lovers from her geisha days lead nowhere - all they really want is to borrow money from her .
the three characters are all neck-deep in the quicksand of their own bored lives and are too weary to struggle much , usually opting instead to resign themselves to the futility of it all or , at the very most , toss complaints back and forth to each other .
`` late chrysanthemums '' is very slow-moving and not much actually happens but naruse , like all great directors , has the ability to do much with very little .
i have n't seen much of his work but i suspect that this is n't his best , even though it is very good .
the problem , i think , is that it all does n't seem to amount to much .
but the film is full of good points .
although it is cynical , it is n't overly so .
naruse seems to sympathize with his desperate characters , and he paints vivid portraits that make the characters seem even somewhat noble in the squalor of their self-made misery .
while the film is n't a must-see , it is important as a fragment of the work of a great little-known ( outside of his own country ) director , precious little of which is available on video here in the u. s .