for me , `` late chrysanthemums '' was interesting not only because it was my first film of naruse i completely enjoyed , but because it was technically as modern and innovative as his 30s work i 've seen .
this does n't mean innovative editing in the way godard would introduce it with `` breathless '' in 1959 , but quite the opposite.the editing was as fluent as in the best of hollywood films from the 30s/40s , but at the same time incredibly fitting regarding the way he was telling his story .
unlike them , it never purposefully accentuated anything or tried to make itself `` invisible '' but , together with the cinematography , made me feel like i was traveling on a gentle stream , constantly feeling the waves beneath me , like a gentle stroke of the hand or the almost unnoticeable rocking of a cradle .
in this sense the film was comparable to ozu 's and mizoguchi 's work , but somehow even more subtle.what was so modern was the fact that the editing seemed almost a character in itself , similar to the remarkable camera-work in dreyer 's ordet ( 1954 ) or vredens dag ( 1943 ) which is revealing us a deeper understanding of the film and its characters rather than simply showing them to us.i feel that naruse 's editing and cinematography are the most interesting aspects of his films , elevating the stories significance beyond the obvious .
the wonderful sets and settings should n't be forgotten either !
i found the story itself to be rather conventional.the narrative and its characters were introduced in a very interesting way , and i thought that the first half of the film was setting up a delicately ingenious spectrum of emotions and interrelations .
unfortunately the second half of the film and its resolution were rather didactic and and formulaic compared to the set up ( though by itself it would have been perfectly fitting in any other - less complex - film ) .
somehow i felt that he failed a bit in trying to dissolve the many layers he had woven .
maybe he should have kept them intact .
this criticism might seem a bit harsh to a viewer of this film , especially since the procedure is again reminiscent to the way ozu dealt with the plot in his films .
unfortunately i have n't yet the feeling that naruse was able to elevate the story and its characters in his films ' conclusions in a similarly sublime fashion .
the best efforts i have seen to date - ukigumo ( floating clouds / 1955 ) and midaregumo ( scattered clouds / 1967 ) - sustained the energy he had built throughout the narrative , while delivering poignant and resonant endings.this is already more than most director 's are able to do , and in my opinion the basis for a real mastery of the cinematic medium .
in this regard , and considering the resonance of the last two films i 've seen by him , he may have already become one of my favorites.the only problem i have at the moment , is where i 'm going to see more of his films on the big screen .