it is always a well-known , and important directorial device to set up the atmosphere of a film within the first 5 minutes .
in the crucial opening scenes , the film should assert itself and make the viewers take notice and get interested in the rest of the film .
here , in `` mute witness '' , we find a prime example of this .
*scene spoiler* in the first 5-10 minutes , the film opens to a very hitchcockian scene of a pretty blonde lady in her apartment , with the radio on .
she 's wandering around , applying lipstick , dolling herself up , and ignoring the news report of a serial killer on the loose .
of course , the serial killer is in her house , and monitoring her moves , knife in hand .
she hears a noise , looks in a room , and there is her partner in a pool of blood .
at the very point of her screams , she turns around to be faced with the knife-wielding maniac , who stabs her repeatedly in a brutal and horrifying act ... ... .then something odd happens .
as the woman convulses in her death throes , the killer sits down and takes out a cigarette to watch his victim perish .
before he finds his lighter , his cigarette is lit ... from someone else in the room !
the camera pans out , and we realise that there are more and more people in the room , some taking notes , some filming , some recording the death , and that the lady is taking an awfully long time to die , and making a very hammy job of it too .
when the audience realises what 's going on , and the whole scene is part of a film , the suspenseful and horrific scene takes on an element of humour .
*end scene spoiler* i have highlighted this opening scene for several reasons .
firstly , it portrays the atmosphere of the whole movie perfectly .
a thriller in the style of hitchcock or de palma , with some very disorientating , and even blackly humorous moments .
- it conveys a central subject matter ( that of the difference between a 'movie screen death ' and a 'snuff film death ' , an issue which is elaborated on later in the film ) , and finally , it introduces the viewer to the characters , all as silently as possible.the plot of mute witness centres around billy hughes , an american special effects make-up artist who is working on the set of the film , being shot in a large warehouse in moscow .
billy can not speak , but she communicates in sign language through her sister .
after the end of an evening 's filming , billy inadvertently finds herself locked in the warehouse by accident , and in her attempt to escape , is witness to two of the crew making what first appears to be a porno film , but turns out to be a snuff movie .
suddenly , her escape from the warehouse is a matter of life and death.without doubt , the first half of the film is powerful and absolutely gripping .
billy 's saving grace , and her handicap is the fact that she is n't able to utter a sound .
( in fact , in my opinion , one of the best aspects of the film is the fact that it is n't chock-full of women screaming ) .
there are some utterly disturbing moments , and some superb set-pieces of real suspense ( the corridoor , and the elevator shaft are perfect examples ) .
the timing is fluid , and the whole first half is an incredibly satisfying experience in itself.the second half of the film introduces new concepts .
while there are still several suspenseful moments , the focus is on plot twists .
new characters are introduced , and it is ambiguous as to whose side they are on .
while there is nothing wrong per se with the second half of the film , it just does n't quite measure up to the first half .
there are some neat moments of black humour that perfectly juxtapose and punctuate some very dramatic scenes , but there are also some very lame comedy moments ( coming specifically from billy 's sister and her fiancée , who happens to be the director of the movie billy is working on ) , that almost ruin the film , just because they are badly misplaced and/or mistimed and ruin the pace .
- at the end , the twists keep coming at a rapid-fire speed , and the climax of the film is , appropriately , as tense as the first half.there are several things that really make the movie work .
the barriers of communication that billy must face , both as a mute , and as an american in moscow , mean that even an emergency call for help becomes a dangerous situation .
the actress that plays billy , natasha zudina , does a wonderful job in the film , with an engaging on-screen prescence , and a brilliant performance , and finally , the direction as a whole , but most particularly in the first half of the film , which truly is a study in alfred hitchcock 's suspense/thriller film techniques.as i have already said , though , the let-downs in the film are from some terrible comic relief moments that really do not need to be added .
there is already a consistent and effective streak of dark humour that appears in the film without the need for the characters of karen hughes and andy clarke ( the sister and the moviemaker ) to turn their scenes into some unusual sit-com .
however , despite these shortcomings , the film is a thoroughly enjoyable thriller , and ideal for a group viewing at halloween .
( certainly better than the usual slasher horror film ... ! )