billy hughes is a mute young lady working for make-up on a cheap horror picture being filmed in moscow by an american director .
one night billy gets locked in the movie studio .
later that night she hears that someone might be in the building and goes to check it out .
that 's when she stumbles across a woman being brutally murdered , while being filmed .
after escaping the clutches of the murderers , billy informs the authorities , only to be red-faced when the men show it was an act .
billy knows what she saw and soon her life is in turmoil again from underground figures that believe she has something of importance.i do n't know how this heart-pounding sleeper passed me by , but i thought it was a much older flick .
there 's one thing though , it 's got to be one of the most jarringly , and intense thrillers i 've seen in quite a while .
it 's just a great suspense builder and mostly everything clicks into place !
the first half of the feature is surprisingly gripping with taut sequences that have your heart in your throat and clouds us with an atmospherically foreboding environment of alienation .
underling this is a humorously wicked black streak .
faults do pop up in the story , as it does lose that furious grip it held so early and goofy humour ( or better putter comic relief ) between fay ripley and evan richard 's characters is a hit and miss affair by being too forceful .
in the long run , it probably could have done without .
despite some cringe moments , this aspect did n't hinder my enjoyment of it .
for me , the soft ending they decided to go with just did n't feel right.the interestingly mysterious premise was eerie to the bone and packed some unsettling goods .
so multi-facet was the context and its thrills , there was something fresh to how this all plays out and the nervy jolts and unbearable tension are weaved into a range of sudden plot turns and twists .
really , they made superb use of the novel idea of this disability and to handicap the situation , by staging it in a foreign place where not too many spoke english and so we are caught up in the confusion too .
the delicate marina zudina gives a harrowing portrayal of the american mute girl billy .
the way she able to display the erratic emotions through her eyes and actions gave it some gruff and believability .
director anthony waller shoots the flick in a rather stylish , well-timed and skillful manner , without loosing that grimy look that eventuates from its rigid surroundings and a powerfully airy music score persistently nags at you .
the only real name to make an appearance was small cameo part by alec guinness .
the performances by the cast were all fine , especially the nail biting turns by oleg yankovsky and igor volkov as the russian murderers.this riveting feature that 's mostly made up of unknowns , is way better than your average dark thriller .
highly recommended .