a couple of years before scream spoofed the slasher/horror genre with savvy , self-conscious young things knowing every trick in the book of what to do and not to do in a precarious situation , a little movie produced in russia hit the theatres without any grandiose pretensions.this movie was mute witness .
starring a cast of unknowns ( except an extremely brief cameo by sir alec guiness whose scenes were purportedly filmed eight years prior to the actual filming of this movie ) , it told the story of a mute make-up artist , billie , who is working on a film on location in russia produced and directed by her sister 's boyfriend andy .
she is unaware that the set has closed when she goes to retrieve her belongings and inadvertently stumbles onto a porn shoot that becomes extremely bloody .
overcome with horror she alerts the murderers of her presence , a chase ensues , and finally she is rescued by andy who take her home as they alert the police .
the trouble is ... there is no body , no evidence that anything of the sort took place .
even so , a mysterious inspector seems to be on billie 's side of the story ... .and to say more would be criminal .
mute witness is the kind of film that demands a scrutiny of viewing similar to the most intricate , clever thriller because as much as it is a convoluted thriller , it 's one that pays its dues to movies like wait until dark and the best of hitchcock in its choice of camera cuts , deadpan humor , americans reacting in foreign countries where they are powerless , and nail-biting suspense until it seems something must snap .
even if the story does become a little too implausible due to the fact that the story arc suddenly becomes the focus of an even greater conspiracy , the film succeeds in not trying to trick the audience with cheap shots ( for example the sudden appearance of a person on camera accompanied by a crashing swell of violins ) but with the fear of the unknown and that death is only a shadow away .
very smart .