this is an interesting , hard to find movie from the early 70 's starring jan michael vincent as a young man who does n't make the cut as a marine .
dressed in 'baby blue ' outfits to humiliate them as they are sent home , the failed recruits are sent packing .
vincent stops at a bar and runs into a very young richard gere who has just returned from a tour in the pacific as a hard-core marine 'raider ' .
gere 's character is already jaded and contemplating desertion , and he takes advantage of vincent 's innocence , stealing his 'baby blue ' uniform after getting him drunk and beating him in an alleyway .
vincent 's character , whose name is marion , takes gere 's outfit and is suddenly transformed into a marine 'raider ' .
marion hitch-hikes his way into wyoming and stops at a little norman rockwell-like little town .
in the local café he meets rose hudkins , who immediately catches his eye .
staying with hudkins parents , marion attracts all sorts of attention from the towns folks .
mr hudkins suspects marion and wonders how a marine 'raider ' could still be so innocent .
the story also brings up the japanese internment camps , as the towns folks go 'hunting ' 3 escapees .
marion is shot accidentally during this hunt .
but there 's still a happy ending , which befuddled me a bit .
i would have preferred a little more drama !
anyway , this captures jmv at the peak of his 70 's performances .
buster and billie , baby blue marine and white line fever in the mid-70 's were amazingly good jmv performances .
he was both an action star and a heart-throb all at the same time !
!
!
he made a lot of quality movies during his career , and continued to do so up into the mid 80 's with the great tv show airwolf .
he does a very good job in this as 'hedge ' , quietly observing the way people treat him ( in his uniform ) as he travels across the country .
he must have performed some of the stunt work as well- there is a harrowing river scene at the end of the movie-and it looks like he 's the guy getting tossed down the river to me !
but really , at the height of his popularity , this movie could have done so much more with jmv 's talent and his looks .
innocence can only be so interesting .
evil , as explored in `` buster and billie '' , is much more dramatic !
anyway , glynnis o'connor is delightful as rose .
the whole look of the movie is like a norman rockwell painting .
the outdoor scenes are gorgeous - must have been filmed in canada .