**spoilers** beautifully photographed slice of life home-front wwii love story with norman rockwell paintings in the beginning and end of the movie about how a `` war hero '' is not just someone who kills for his country but is also someone who thinks for himself and is n't corrupted by the war propaganda that 's constantly drummed into his head .
washing out of the marine corps marion `` hedg '' hedgepeth , jan michael-vincent , is kicked out of boot-camp , after five weeks , and forced to put on a baby blue marine uniform that shows that he just did n't have it to make the corps .
humilitated and scorned wherever he went as he 's going home to st. louis and terrified what his family , whom his dad was in the marine corps in wwi , would think of him in that he could n't `` cut the mustard '' as a us marine .
hedg stopping in a bar and finds sitting next to him is a marine member of the fearless and deadly marine raiders richard gere whom a admiring hedge buys a beer .
making conversation with richard hedge is shocked to find out that not only is he being sent back to the pacific theater after all the battles he fought in , and combat medals he got , but the totally gray hair and mid-thirty looking richard is going to be 21 next month !
that 's what being in the marine corps and wwii did to him !
buying hedge a number of drinks richard takes the drunk baby blue outside and knocks him out taking his baby blues and leaves his impressive us marine uniform with some money in it for hedge to ware .
as soon as hedge puts on richard 's uniform , that fits him perfectly , he 's confronted by this big drunken us paratrooper who calls himself cement-head wanting to have a fist fight with the marine raider .
hedge doing everything he can to avoid trouble is forced by cement-head to belt him , after he himself cracked two beer bottle over his cement-head , to get himself warmed up for the big bout between marine , hedge , and paratrooper , cement-head .
hedge incredibly floors the big cement headed buffoon knocking him out cold with one punch !
`` i guess the trick is not hitting him in on top of his head '' a stunned hedge tell his , cement-heads , fellow g.i's.hitch-hiking to this small town of bidwell hedge notices this us military internment camp for japanese-americans who are there because their considered a threat to us security .
it 's later in the movie that hedge shows everyone what a real hero he is , not who the people in the town think he is , by risking his life to save one of the hated `` japs '' who mindlessly together with two of his friends escaped from the interment camp , where the hell did they think they were going anyway ?
hedge risked his life by saving the scared to death japanese-american from drowning in the dangerous rapids outside the town .
hedge in his actions taught the people of bidwell that not all `` japs '' , even those who are american citizens , are bad and treacherous banzai screaming suicidal kamikazes like they were thought by the newspapers magazines and movies at the time to think that they were.hedge strikes up a conversation with the very cute and pretty waitress at the local diner rose hudkins , glynnis o'connor , who 's just crazy about him that even hedge at first thinks that it 's his uniform not him that impressed her .
later when hedge admits to rose that he 's not what she and her parents think , a us marine raider , that he is rose had by then gotten to know the sweet and caring washed-out marine so well that it did n't matter to her at all what he was supposed to be , a marine a paratrooper or a post office worker , it was what was inside his heart that really counted.the film has a number of touching and beautiful scenes in it between hedge and rose that shows how movies used to be made years ago without all the sex and profanity that we see and hear in movies today that involved two people in love with each other.the way the film accurately , not phony baloney , shows the true feelings of average americans , back then in 1943 , about the war in general and japanese in particular could n't have been done in more authentic and accurate as well as good taste .
`` baby blur marine '' does it 's best not to be too politically correct in not showing the hero 's or leading actors and actresses in the film having the same feelings and ideas back then during wwii as most people have now , which would have come across as phony as a three dollar bill , to those people watching the film who lived during those historic and momentous times when the film was to take place .