ok , so the following review is more of a synopsis more so than really containing any spoilers , but better safe than sorry so as to avoid being blacklisted , right ?
right !
consider yourselves officially warned , and read on ... in this parody/tribute to the greatest time in horror movie history - the 1980 's - a group of stupid teens are getting together to host a seance in the house of the notorious murder mcgee , who butchered his entire family a few years back and buried them in the back yard .
as i 'm sure you can guess , things go from bad to worse faster than you can say `` where 's the beef ?
? ''
and in typical 80 's horror movie fashion the deaths are bloody , the dialogue is cheesy , and beautiful women are taking off their clothes every chance they get .
good times ... no clique or 80 's horror movie clichéd characterizations are left unrepresented here .
in fact , no stone was left unturned at all – we have the cool hero , his innocent girlfriend , the goth chick , the tough thug ( think john bender ) , the hot blonde who keeps losing her shirt , the shy dork in love with the hot blonde that keeps losing her shirt , a couple of gorgeous half-naked lesbians , and two big geeks.as you can plainly see , the cast is pretty big .
usually , larger casts are where things can fall apart quickly , with one or two sour apples buggering up the whole barrel .
not in this case though .
not a single cast member left me disappointed .
the acting was very well done .
everyone from the cool hero in his thriller jacket played by jovan meredith to the grooovy goth chick played by renee dorian to geeks one & two played by cory assink & jonathan brett – they all played it straight , brought their a-game , and knocked it out of the park .
if you 're a fan of gary & wyatt in weird science , you 'll immediately fall in love with the geeks.director/co-writer jeff c. smith is a guy to watch for in the future , trust me on this .
if this is what he can do with a low budget , there are nothing but good things ahead for him when he gets more money for future projects .
the characters were dead on ; the atmosphere was perfect ; the laughs were huge ; the blood flowed , and squirted , and sprayed beautifully – it was just like watching a horror movie from the 1980 's .
call this one `` the breakfast club meets night of the demons '' !
!
!
the tag line says it all , and says it honestly - `` excessive violence ; gratuitous nudity ; zero budget '' - no false advertising here , folks !
as fans of this genre , we have to look to the indies and support these hard-working folks who are busting their humps out there bringing us original tales , lest we forever get stuck in a world filled with big studio watered-down pg-13 'horror ' or pointless remakes like the hitcher .
no , thank you - no more of that for me.in closing , i honestly have to say that stupid teenagers must die !
is by far one of the best indie flicks i 've gotten the pleasure of watching this year .
it 's a bloody good time , and holds up on repeat viewings .
from the dialogue to the characters to the wardrobe ... even the closing love theme over the end credits ( which if that does n't bring back fits of laughter recalling mid-80 's power ballads by reo speedwagon - over-pronounced r 's on every word starting with the letter 'r ' - then i 'll eat my dvd right now ) ... bottom line is , if you 're a fan of 80 's horror or horror in general , no more hesitation - this flick deserves to be in your collection !
!