this brass eye special paedo-geddon was swamped by complaints ( more on that later ) when it was broadcast in 2001 following a national debate around a possible `` sarah`s law `` following the abduction and murder of school girl sarah payne .
in fact it`s scheduling was delayed while phil collins took legal advice after he found out he`d been fooled by the show`s maker chris morris into a starting a campaign entitled nonce-senseif truth be told this show is probably more remembered for the controversy than the content which is in very poor taste but i do confess that i laughed out loud .
the edition centres around paedophiles and how society treats both them and their victims .
chris morris plays the presenter who tells the audience that an infamous paedophile has been launched into space then confesses that an eight year old child has accidentally been placed into the capsule along with the paedophile .
cue the child`s frightened screams .
like i said very poor taste other highlights of the show include dr fox giving a scientific lecture that paedophiles share an identical nervous system to crabs ( `` no one knows this but it`s a scientific fact `` ) labour mp barbara follet giving a public warning about equipment paedophiles put on their genitals while surfing the net and kate thornton warning viewers that paedophiles can send gas through the internet which makes young children suseptable to sexual predators including one victim `` who was once a shy innocent child and who now has the sexuality of a sixty year old colonel `` .
morris also shows a police officer in the child protection squad a serious of photos wanting to know if they`re classed as obscene .
the photos included barbie surrounded by a marital aids and a composite photo featuring a young boys head , a dog`s body and an erect penis that could only have belonged to john holmes .
hey i never said this show was tasteful did i ?
it`s impossible to mention paedo-geddon without the hypocritical fall out that surrounded it where politicians , childrens organizations and policemen rushed to condemn the show for making fun of a very serious subject .
the show was poor taste despite me laughing all the way through it but it`s a biting satire .
perhaps the critics should take a long hard look in the mirror where a liberal elite allows convicted paedophile slime to walk around the streets of britain before they criticise a mere tv show for exacerbating tensions .