i particularly enjoyed delly 's review of this film and agree that howard is not the only `` damaged '' character .
howard is rather ruthlessly `` set-up '' by the script , but there is no evidence that his previous employer is actually dead or , if she is , that he murdered her .
howard does n't know and neither do we .
in terror and confusion at seeing the woman lying there , he bolts .
however , he never actually harms helen gordon , no matter how enraged he is .
indeed , he reacts with horror at helen 's fainting spell and the fact that he is holding a pair of scissors ... then he resumes his tidying up and greets the recovered helen with the almost pathetic `` i 'm very tired now .
i think i 'll go home '' .
frankly , i do n't think he 's a psychopath .
a sick puppy , certainly , but not a psychopath.the problem with howard is that he has no real male identity .
he wanted to serve his country , but his mental condition denies him a place in the army .
he is singularly rootless and isolated : no wife , no girl , no home ( again , at least as far as we know ) .
and , he does a woman 's job - `` floor 's are my speciality '' .
helen 's niece ruthlessly strips away this pride in his thoroughness by exclaiming caustically that she would want a man with a real job .
also , although he finds himself strongly attracted to helen , he is unable or unwilling to do more than scare her by making a strong sexual pass .
he is remarkably powerless - ca n't fight , ca n't work , ca n't make love.helen is justifiably terrified , however .
she tries to connect to him but , finding that he does n't respond normally ( i.e .
way outside the comfort zone provided by her rose-tinted memories of husband ned ) , unwittingly presses all howard 's buttons by lying to him in her attempt to escape.both characters , trapped in the house , trapped by fear , neuroses , rage and memory , deserve sympathy .
i know the sudden ending has disappointed some reviewers , but i felt it fitted well , as it offered a kind of release to the characters .
helen is freed , i think , from the past .
when howard tries on her husband 's army coat , helen 's disgusted reaction is highlighted .
she no doubt feels that the `` sacredness '' of ned 's possessions has been violated but , hopefully , her need to keep everything `` untouched '' has been lost in the reality of her own struggle with danger .
perhaps she can move on.howard is also freed - from his endless cycle of anger , hurt and violence .
whether he moves on to treatment or to jail is debatable , but i hope it 's the former.great performances from ryan and lupino .
i prefer `` on dangerous ground '' , but this is pretty good too .