the movie with its single set , minimal cast , and straightforward photography ( except for a couple of brief special effects ) reminds me of one of those old 60 minute playhouse dramas so popular during tv 's early years .
nonetheless , the suspense hangs heavy over poor war widow ida lupino as she tries to deal with her semi-psychotic handyman robert ryan before one of his mood-swings kills her .
and who better to play the troubled part than that great actor ryan .
he was n't very versatile -- watching him essay comedy is almost painful .
but no one was better at wounded idealism ( on dangerous ground ) or the psychic pain of this movie .
few actors could express as much with their eyes as this lean and towering figure.lupino 's problem is that she 's locked up in her house with a man who is kind and gentle one moment and raging the next .
the suspense comes from her various ploys to keep him happy while trying to escape .
it 's a nail-biter all the way .
this is not one of lupino 's many fine `` soulful '' parts that she was so good at .
instead , it 's a role many lesser actresses could have handled well enough .
my favorite scene is with ryan and bratty teenager margaret whiting .
ryan 's already having difficulty with his masculinity and what others are saying about him .
then when whiting walks in and finds the attractive-looking ryan scrubbing the floor , she starts getting coy , flirting with her budding sexuality .
sensing trouble , ryan abruptly fends her off -- finesse is not his strong suit .
insulted , whiting attacks his masculinity by calling his work `` women 's work '' .
that does it .
up to that point he 's been courteous and professional with lupino , trying to set himself on a normal path .
but whiting has hit his raw nerve .
now there 's heck to pay as whiting bounces out the door , leaving lupino to pay the price .
it 's a riveting scene , expertly done.anyway , this is one of the dozen or so films produced by lupino and her husband at a time when audiences were moving away from these little black-and-whites in favor of wide-screen spectacles .
too bad .
what a hugely talented figure she was both behind the camera and in front .
she deserves at least an honorary oscar from a movie industry to which she contributed so much .