beware , my lovely is an experimental studio film from the early fifties and was directed by a man , harry horner , better known for his set designs .
robert ryan plays a handyman who is hired by ida lupino to do some housework for her .
the problem is that he is a psychopathic murderer and does n't know it .
miss lupino is an empathetic soul and tries to win ryan over , to little avail .
he is not the sort of man compassion could help or cure .
thus we have an interesting situation of two people who basically mean well , but one of them ca n't do well because there is something wrong with him .
he suffers periodic blackouts during which he commits acts of violence , which he later forgets .
essentially the effect ryan has on lupino is that of the hunter and his prey , or in another sense a sadist .
the audience finds out early on that ryan is a mad killer , but it takes lupino much longer .
thus we must live with this knowledge as we watch poor miss lupino try everything in her power to 'win ' ryan over in order to make things work , get the job done , get on with life .
but getting on with things is n't in ryan 's makeup , as he is incapable of any but the most rudimentary forms of normality , and as soon as there is an opening his paranoia asserts itself .
as a study in mental illness the movie is n't too impressive .
what it 's superlative at is showing the effect of major mental illness , with dangerous psychopathology in the mix , and its effect on a normal person .
in this regard the film is realistic and compassionate , though relentlessly logical in that we know lupino ca n't 'fix ' ryan , yet we want her to .
the result is that , if one is willing , one can get extremely involved in this film emotionally if one can put aside , so to speak , its melodramatic structure.horner shows us , gradually , the layout the lupino house , a forbidding gothic monstrosity that never feels like a home .
we become familiar with staircase , kitchen and pantry ; and we come to know which windows miss lupino can use for an escape and which ones she ca n't .