if you 're in the middle of a ferocious war and it 's still not clear that you 're going to come out on top , among the things you 'll be concerned with is to keep up the morale of the civilians ... to demonstrate that our troops have the bravery , the resourcefulness and the dedication to overcome all the odds in a noble cause .
and that 's just what director anthony asquith provided the british with 1943 's naval war film , we dive at dawn .
after more than 60 years , it 's not surprising that some of the movie is dated .
it does n't help that the class stereotypes which help define the enlisted men from the officers can be jarring .
here , as in so many other british war films , the men invariably have thick regional working class accents while the officers speak with an educated fluency that would place them at home in england 's finest ruling-class establishments .
in this movie , freddie taylor ( john mills ) , the captain of the submarine sea tiger , is clever , confident , resourceful , aggressive , in control , good with his men , humorous with his peers , quick to make a decision .
and it helps that he 's lucky .
his men are jolly tars , for the most part , competent at their jobs and always ready with a joke when things get tense .
although we spend the first third of the movie getting to know these people while they 're on leave , after that things get tense quickly .
taylor and his sub are ordered to destroy the brandenburg , a new german battleship .
they just miss the ship when it enters the kiel canal and heads into the baltic .
taylor assesses the risks and decides the sea tiger will go after it , through mine fields , anti-sub nets and with a real risk of not having enough fuel to return to home base .
after several tense situations , the confrontation takes place .
the sea tiger lets loose six torpedoes but has to dive , not knowing if it had done its job .
after a clever subterfuge , taylor outfoxes a couple of german destroyers but then realizes there is not enough fuel .
he plans to scuttle his sub and surrender when , just at the last moment , james hobson ( eric portman ) , a seaman who had been sullen and a loner and who speaks german , says there is a small danish coastal village that had been a fuel depot .
he thinks it might still be for the germans .
the last third of the movie is a rousing action sequence as the crew of the sub attempts to hold off the germans long enough to pump in enough fuel to get the sea tiger back to britain .
this is a wartime propaganda movie , so do n't expect failure .
and did the sea tiger actually put the brandenburg down ?
are the men reunited with their wives and sweethearts ?
did hobson have a reconciliation with his wife and small son that left him smiling for once ?
did freddie taylor finally have a chance to make use of all those female names in his little black book ?
you 'll have to see the movie .
there are propaganda war movies and there are propaganda war movies .
some , like powell 's and pressburger 's one of our aircraft is missing and the 49th parallel , still stand up to viewing today because the stories are solid and unexpected and the creators did n't use obvious shorthand clichés .
others , like we dive at dawn , were made with enough clichés that when watching we have to remind ourselves how dire the time was when the film was made .
still , asquith can build a lot of suspense even with a few clichés .
the sea tiger 's forcing its way through a sub net was tense .
the stalking of the brandenburg and the plotting needed for the torpedo firing was realistic ; john mill 's no-nonsense attitude while he prepared to attack was well-handled .
the fake-out preparations to make the sea tiger look as if it had been destroyed by depth charges was as realistic , inside the sub as well as out , as you could hope for , and the battle for the fuel depot was dramatic and exciting .
we dive at dawn is not a classic war film , but it 's a well-made , well-acted example of its type and time .
john mills , it 's worth noting , had a long , long career .
especially in the fifties he played in a number of serious-minded films looking back at those wwii days .
he had the quality of showing grit , cheerfulness and perseverance , but of also being trustworthy , a man england could be proud of as he fought the war .
top-billed in this movie was eric portman , a fine actor with a unique voice and the ability to give stares so cold you 'd want to put on a sweater .
everyone on the sub is very much in the joking but stiff-upper-lip mode , but portman manages some complexity for his character .
mills and portman did fine jobs working together on this film .