this is an excellent tub-thumper from the war years.john mills leads a fine cast of regular british b-movie stalwarts in a solo submarine attack upon a fictitious enemy battleship.filmed in black and white , it 's well paced and also well placed considering that a war was going on at the time .
if anything , it shows how seriously the authorities took positive propaganda.the mission-side of the movie takes place in genuine submarines .
things are cramped and claustrophobic .
the actors look suitably grimy and sweaty without being too offensive to the heroic palate .
other commentators have already drawn attention to the authentic little details like keeping the vessel trim and forgetting to read instruments , as well as the engine-room activities.this probably is the first movie in which debris ( and a dead german ) is blown from the torpedo tube to fool an enemy destroyer .
and it 's the only time i have seen part of the vessel exposed in a pretence of sinking - a high risk gamble if ever there was one.i 'm a little sceptical as to whether or not a submarine could punch its way through a wire-rope net .
submerged speed was barely twice that of human walking speed , and the net would have had a great deal of 'give ' .
also , the engineer was at the same work-station and operating the same levers both on the surface and submerged .
this , too , seems implausible as either diesel or electric engines were used and they were in different sections of the ship - or so i 'm told.there was a wee bit too much shore-side drama for my tastes .
but then , this was a propaganda effort , and clearly contained a subtle message for civilians to mind their behaviour as it could adversely affect service morale and therefor the war effort.these niggles aside , it 's a pretty entertaining little adventure .
nowadays movies of such vintage tend to be screened in the afternoon , whilst far more modern and inferior movies enjoy prime-time .
but then ; it 's no longer politically-correct to mention the war in the presence of our european friends ( too many of them have guilty consciences ) , or our own left-wing fascists ( non of whom have ever fought for the freedoms they now take for granted ) .as a submarine movie it is eminently collectible .
better than 'the enemy below ' , i think , though less demonstrative .
not so authentic as 'das boot ' by any means , but not so gross either .