this is simply a good ole fashioned western..not overly complex or long .
it does n't deceive itself in thinking that it was made but for entertainment .
still , it is one of those westerns you can watch once and be done with without returning .
it features former partners randolph scott and glenn ford whose friendship is strong despite the fact that ford 's cheyenne rogers has been part of bank robbing ( he even steals scott 's sheriff steve upton 's horse without knowing it his good friend for which he is thieving ) .
in red valley , upton is under heavy scrutiny for a bank robbing that ended with several dead .
claire trvor portrays countess maletta , a friend of cheyenne 's who gives he and buddy `` nitro '' ( guinn 'big boy ' williams ) a place to stay for the time being .
cheyenne desires to go straight , but finds that hard when jack lester ( bernard nedell ) and his bad bunch want to rob red valley 's bank .
it is actually jack who is behind the murders , but cheyenne 's troubled past is hard to get away from .
he and nitro will be charged with the murders they did n't commit ( the robbery was one cheyenne did n't commit ) and it will be upton who must somehow save the day before lester gets away with murder .
there are sub-plots which include cheyenne 's falling in love with alison mcleod { evelyn keyes ; the irony of the story is that alison 's father , uncle willie , is actually in cahoots with banker stanley clanton ( porter hall ) in a planned united theft with lester to steal the town of red valley 's loot } .
will upton uncover uncle willie and banker clanton 's treacherous scheme ?
will uncle willie be able to go through it without his conscience always bothering him ?
this film has a terrific barroom brawl and a dandy of a climactic shootout .
columbia could n't have picked a better genre to begin the coloring process as this film has some fine mountainous shots as men give chase on horseback and such .
do n't expect to get your socks blown off , but the film is simple and well paced .