`` the desperadoes '' ( 1943 ) is a genuine classic , not for its story ( which is fairly routine ) , but for its technical production elements .
this was a landmark western , the biggest ever at the time of its release and all the more unique because it was a columbia production-a lightweight studio with a bottom feeding reputation .
only fox 's `` jesse james '' ( also starring randolph scott ) from a few years earlier gave anywhere near this lavish a treatment to the genre .
although it would be eclipsed in a few years by `` the searchers '' and `` high noon '' , `` the desperadoes '' was a ground breaking effort and a historical treasure .
in 1863 , the economy in the town of red valley , utah is based on rounding up and selling wild horses to the union army .
the script gets a little messed up here with references to the railroad ( which was several years away in utah 's future ) and custer 's last stand ( custer was busy fighting stuart in pennsylvania at the time ) but these are not important plot elements .
red valley has an honest sheriff , steve upton ( scott ) , but the banker and several citizens are corrupt ; robbing their own bank each time the government pays for a herd of horses .
the town is visited by cheyenne rogers ( glenn ford ) , a famous outlaw who is an old friend steve 's .
he wants to go straight , especially after falling for the pretty livery stable owner alison mcleod ( evelyn keyes ) .
cheyenne 's partner `` nitro '' rankin ( guinn `` big boy '' williams ) is mainly there for comic relief as are uncle willie mcleod ( edgar buchanan ) and the town judge ( raymond walburn who models his character on frank morgan 's `` wizard of oz '' crystal ball faker ) .
taking no chances with their huge budget columbia packed this thing with tons of action and every western movie element but indians and covered wagons .
there is the best wild horse stampede ever filmed , a spectacular barroom brawl , an explosive climax , romance , and three-strip technicolor .
all this stuff does n't necessarily fit together but who would have cared back in 1943. unity is a problem as it tries to be both a serious action western and a comedy .
the cinematography was probably the best ever at the time of its filming .
the indoor scenes are solid but it is the naturalistic outdoor photography that is truly impressive ; both the lyrical static shots and the moving camera filming of the action sequences .
scott and claire trevor were top billed , but the studio clearly wanted to promote ford , who would soon be their biggest star .
and director charles vidor utilized the film to showcase his new wife keyes ( whose portrayal of scarlett 's sister in `` gone with the wind '' had connected with audiences more than any small part in the history of films ) .
the ford-keyes dynamic is `` the desperadoes '' most unique and important feature .
rather than go for the cliché `` love triangle '' with scott and/or trevor ( which it first appears will happen ) , the entire romantic focus is on the two younger actors .
this was probably the best role keyes ever got and she makes the most of it .
playing a tomboyish but extremely sexy young woman who looks great in both leather pants and dresses , and who rides and fights like kiera knightley 's character in `` pirates of the caribbean '' .
this was revolutionary at the time and coincided with the 1942 formation of the waac for wwii military service .
`` the desperadoes '' is one film that has been well taken care of and the print looks like it is brand new .
unfortunately there are no special features on the dvd .
then again , what do i know ?
i 'm only a child .