even a bad julie andrews musical is worth watching and this is n't bad !
in fact it 's quite entertaining .
actually it 's a fascinating study on trying to manipulate a star 's personae.to break julie 's `` goody two shoes mold '' she plays a german spy/english musical hall actress .
she subsequently went on to take her top off in the movie s.o.b .
and play a drag queen in victor victoria and other not so goody girls usually under hubby blake edward 's direction.the movie is admittedly problematic it is hard to feel for her character because she 's a german spy .
we want to love julie but she 's on the wrong side of the law .
probably this is why this movie flopped .
julie as a german spy ?
our mary poppins ?
our maria van trapp suddenly a german spy ?
the romance seems to happen overnight and come from nowhere .
but never mind , it 's a musical and it has jullie .
oh and did i mention hunky rock hudson is in it too ?
julie gives a glowing wonderful performance that any musical comedy buff should not miss .
great ww 1 songs and nice tunes by mancini.yes the film has plot holes and at times does n't seem logical .
for example , why is julie and her uncle suddenly pursued by the germans when a minute ago she was spying for them .
but on another note , who cares ?
the musical numbers are fun and exciting .
the costumes and scenery extraordinarily lavish .
the cinematography quite on the mark.it has the annoying idiot detectives that blake edwards puts in all his movies .
( yawn ) but it has julie- trying desperately to change her image .
( you can imagine dinner with blake and julie - julie : `` blake we need to change my image . ''
blake : `` i will make you a german spy , then we will take your clothes off in another movie and then play a transvestite in a another movie .
they wo n't recognize you .
it will be the death of maria von trapp '' fascinating study on changing an image .
wonderful julie .
a must see for musical comedy buffs .
much more entertaining than star !