back in the 70 's , a small-time texas filmmaker named s.f .
brownrigg directed a handful of surprisingly decent low-budget drive-in horror flicks which seem to have developed a small cult following over the years .
before viewing his first film , do n't look in the basement , i was n't too sure what to expect , but i sure as hell did n't expect it to turn out to be the only texas horror i thought was better than the chainsaw massacre .
i do n't know , this might actually be my all-time favorite horror movie.we begin in an isolated insane asylum .
at first , it seems like a rather laid-back place to get mentally healthy , considering all the patients are allowed to roam around freely and whatnot , as if it were their house ( i guess it is ) .
none of them seem all that dangerous , only delusional .
the residents include a love-nympho , a 700 year old woman , a man-child , a spaz , a guy who thinks he 's in a war , a woman who thinks she has a baby , and a guy who thinks he 's a judge .
one day , out of nowhere , judge kills the doctor with an axe , shortly thereafter , the wanna-be baby mama kills the nurse .
ten minutes into the movie , and things are looking really ugly .
perhaps the new nurse will know what to do , then again , perhaps not .
giving away more would do more harm than good .
it 's best to plunge head first into this one , knowing as little as possible .
if you can appreciate honest-to-god , untampered with horror , then you will not be disappointed .
if you liked scream , if you liked wrong turn , if you go for that unoriginal , over-produced , over-scored digital hollywood garbage , then chances are high you just wont see the beauty in this one .
do n't look in the basement , being a first attempt makes the quality all the more shocking .
the atmosphere and the graininess fit into the location and the score like a glove .
unfortunately , good ol ' s.f .
used up most of his good ideas on his first movie , although , the next entry in his texas-sized quadrilogy , is somewhat of a masterpiece , that is , if you 're into extra sleazy , mean-spirited , hixploitation like someone i know .
if you fall in love with brownrigg 's first two , and absolutely must find out what else he had to offer , check out do n't open the door , and the house where hell froze over .
do n't look in the basement has everything that successful horror needs , no stars , no budget , no digital effects , just an original story brought to life in an insane asylum , with a dozen cast members , and a somber , subtle score , and of course , the twist .
this is real horror for the real horror fan .
10/10