... but you probably have seen it or else you would n't be here .
it 's so obscure that you probably stumbled onto it like i did because this little known gem receives no word-of-mouth.from the very beginning you know how the storyline will shake out but watching as our innocent redheaded nurse puts the pieces of the puzzle together is high quality entertainment .
most horror films bombard viewers with graphic displays of torture but do n't look in the basement plays it subtle , which makes for superior suspense .
note to horror filmmakers : some of us do like subtlety !
lovely and homely nurse charlotte takes a job at a sanitarium but is dismayed when she learns that the head doctor who hired her had a gruesome accident and she is now the subordinate to a mysterious doctor , who we all know is n't a doctor at all .
the suspense is built through charlotte 's unraveling of events with assistance from many of the patients , but which of the patients can charlotte trust ?
this is a gem and is my absolute favorite true horror movie .
i love re-animator and evil dead but they play more for the horror-comedy crowd.violence : $ $ $ ( quite tame for horror standards but there is a decent sprinkling of gore throughout the film .
the opening scene is classic ; no other horror film starts out better , and the end has its fair share of gore as well ) .nudity : $ $ $ $ ( eager to fall in love allyson ( betty chandler ) spends a good deal of time naked , attempting to seduce half the men at the sanitarium .
betty chandler is a knockout and i am shocked that this is her only film credit ) .story : $ $ $ $ ( the story is well handled despite the premise getting a lot of mileage in hollywood .
the script has a knack for building suspense and never fails to place poor charlotte in a precarious situation ) .acting : $ $ $ $ ( betty chandler does the best job here as allyson , capturing dementia with naiveté in an ethereal form .
the judge was splendid as well , weighing facts before he came to a verdict while rosie holotik as charlotte gives a genuine performance as you will feel for her character .