low-budget but memorable would-be shocker that instead emerges as theater of the bizarre .
vulnerable , naive nurse charlotte beale comes to a secluded mental hospital and is completely unaware that the only sane people have been murdered , despite the red flags that are constantly being raised all around her .
the lack of a decent budget really gives the filmmakers little more to go on than a sense of style , as well as a cast of wacky characters .
the pleasures of this film do n't come from the film 's shocks , which are fairly tame , but from the weird atmosphere .
first we have the delusional woman who thinks her baby doll is real .
there 's also an axe-murdering judge , a shell-shocked war veteran , and old mrs. callahan is like everybody 's daffy elderly grandmother gone amok .
a young patient named allyson gives the term `` nymphomaniac '' new meaning .
a big guy named sam is just a little slow after a botched lobotomy , and jennifer vaults suddenly between catatonia and violent outbursts .
the only other sentient person in the place seems to be dr. masters , but does she have a secret ?
`` do n't look in the basement '' is a great example of low-budget exploitation films .
there is n't much plot going on , but the cheapness works for the movie .
several cast members turn in memorable performances , particularly betty chandler and annabelle weenick , and the way the director adds little weird details to the movie can really stick with you.the scene between allyson and `` the telephone man '' is a classic for all time , and especially delicious are the facial expressions of dr. masters when she begins to go over the edge near the finale of the movie .
brownrigg also makes great use of the cheap soundtrack , with several musical cues really evoking the characters that they accompany .
my favorite cue is the `` crazy '' cue , a sitar that twangs whenever one of the patients does something pathological.also wonderful is the way that charlotte herself plunges into hysteria at the climax , with the patients revealing that dr. masters is simply another inmate , and then suggesting that charlotte is also a patient who is being allowed to act out her delusions ( she certainly has a tenuous grip on reality , why else would she not question the ominous lack of phone service or outside contact ? )
.
the scene where charlotte manages to finish off the barely-alive dr. stephens with a toy boat has to be one of the greatest moments in low-budget horror .
yes , `` do n't look in the basement '' could very well be the `` american beauty '' of grade z trash .