nurse charlotte beale ( the lovely rosie holotik ) has arrived to dr. stephens ' clinic for the insane prepared for a new job .
what she does n't expect is to find another supposed doctor in his position after stephens is attacked by axe-wielding maniacal `` judge '' oliver w cameron ( ..in a running gag , anytime he confronts a situation out of his control , he retreats to repeating his name ) .
that doctor is geraldine masters ( annabelle weenick ) who is n't sure about whether beale is a proper fit for their establishment .
after a long discussion about the position ( which is quite an awkward scene as the two debate about beale 's being sent a letter by stephens getting a job at the clinic with masters often reminding her that he is no longer in charge ) masters agrees to let her work in the nursing position , but the good doctor may not be who she seems..the assortment of loonies includes sam ( bill mcgee ) a simple-minded child-man who was stephens ' last victim of lobotomy , jennifer ( harryette warren ) a woman who needs an adult to comfort her as she wallows at masters ' heel like a puppy , danny ( jessie kirby ) a trouble-making annoyance often trying to steal the fake baby of disturbed harriet ( camilla carr ) , allyson ( betty chandler ) a sexy nympho who just wants to be loved and hops at any man she sees , & `` sergeant '' jaffee ( hugh feagin ) your typical case of soldier who has n't escaped the madness of war.the film shows masters ' unorthodox methods of running the clinic with allowing the patients to roam free with the doors to all rooms without locks calling into question..and , not to mention , the fact that oliver is still allowed to walk around despite just chopping dr. stephens with an axe .
and , what exactly happened to dr. stephens ?
ah ha..tacky 70 's drive-in trash is a lot of fun if you are into a warped brand of cinema .
i 'm attracted to bizarre flicks about mental rejects because of their unpredictable nature..you just never know what the hell might happen , especially in this case where they are allowed to roam often unattended .
some consider the low budget a liability , but in the case of this film , i think it enhances the experience .
with the cheap photography and weak production values ( being shot for peanuts in a run down house in some awful location ) it seems creepier and i felt like a voyeur peering into insanity through a camera lens on the outside looking in .