if anyone ever assembles a compendium on modern american horror that is truly worth it 's salt , there will *have* to be an entry for sf brownrigg 's ubiquetous exercize in asylum horror .
every time i watch this movie i am impressed by the complete economy of the film , from the compact , totally self-contained plot with a puzzling beginning and an all too horrible ending , the engaging performances by what was essentially a group of non-professional actors , and a prevading sense of dread and claustrophobia that effectively consumes the narrarive with a certain inevitability which is all the more terrifying because the viewers know what is going on long before the hero [ es ] , with the only question being when are they going to wake up & smell the coffee ?
shot on a dental floss budget in brownrigg 's native texas at an old palatial manor that nicely serves as the setting for a private sanitorium , do n't look in the basement is another intriguing twist on the good old edgar allan poe tome about inmates taking over the asylum just before an otherwise `` normal '' outsider unwittingly joins the ranks without realizing until it is far too late that not all is what it seems , they are totally cut off & beyond any outside help , and inevitably find their own sanity questioned as the madness spins out of control -- the original star trek tv series had a go at this with their whom gods destroy episode from 1968 , juan moctezuma gave the proceedings a peyote fueled mexican psychedelic trip in dr. tarr 's torture dungeon in 1972 , and tangentially related is fernando di leo 's asylum erotica/slaughter hotel , which injects the elements of an unknown killer and an ending that can only be defined as `` splatter cinema '' -- brownrigg may not have seen or been thinking of slaughter hotel , but he sure came up with some similar ideas.legaliciuos former playboy playmate rosie holotik plays charlotte beale , rn in clinical psychology , who has just left her nice job as a supervisor at a major hospital to travel way out into the middle of some god forsaken waste right out of a peckinpah movie to work with a dr. stevens at his private sanitorium .
dr. stevens has pioneered a new form of therapy based upon basically encouraging the emotionally & psychologically scarred to face their inner obsessions , bring them to the surface and hopefully rid the patients of whatever has fried their sense of reasoning .
nice idea , but arming a 6ft 250 pound utterly insane man with an axe and telling him to pound out his aggression and then turning your back on him probably is n't the smartest idea , and dr. stevens is dispatched before ms. holotik even appears onscreen with a good whack to the lower portion of his skull.this event leaves the sanitorium effectively in the hands of one geraldine masters [ actress annabelle weenick , who also served as the script supervisor & production manager ] , a woman of startlingly professional demeanor who quickly defuses the situation with the help of sam , the film 's wonderfully unlikely hero , a lobotomized african american boheomouth played by an actor named bill mcghee who was sadly robbed of a supporting oscar nomination for his turn as a mass of muscle with the brain of an 8 year old boy .
sam 's one wish is to have someone help him put his prized toy boat `` in the water '' , and his continual asking of the various female cast members to do so [ and his nonstop consumption of chocolate popsicles ] as *some* kind of underlying theme , though we will avoid such here because the kids might still be up .
there is also a quick subplot about a staff member who has decided to leave after being threatened by one of the patients , but i 'll leave the details of that to your discovery.ms .
holotik arrives just as dr. stevens has been effectively laid to rest and is quickly won over by the snappy professionalism of ms. masters , who reluctantly allows the leggy young nurse to stay on in spite of the tragedy that has just happened , oh , twenty minutes ago , which you must admit was rather sporting of her .
holotik 's nurse beale begins to demonstrate symptoms of not being the sharpest meat cleaver in the drawer , however , when informed that she shares living quarters with a bunch of maniacs and there are no locks on the doors & does n't trudge off for the nearest ace hardware store to pick up a hasp and padlock to secure herself , and we are treated to a couple of truly creepy scenes where some of the inmates sneak into her room & do stuff like smell her hair , try to kill her with butcher knives and caress her neck with axe heads .
but that 's all a part of working in such a radical psychiatric health care environment , ms. master 's informs her , and she goes about her oddly defined `` rounds '' that consist of wearing as leg defining a nurse outfit as you can find in a 42nd street fetish boutique and getting to know the inmates.allysson is a obsessive compulsive nymphomaniac with homicidal tendancies who likes to take off her shirt & provide the film with some t & a between fits of histrionics ; harriet is a young former mother who let her child die in a stupid accident and now dotes on a beat-up old doll that she is also homicidally protective of ; the seargant is an actual seargeant [ and implied vietnam vet ] who 's negligence led to the death of his platoon , and now watches from the window with binoculars for the approach of an unseen enemy ; jennifer is a phish fan who could n't score a ticket to the new year 's eve show and went insane & likes to scarf down nembutols and other barbituates when nobody is looking , and likewise has hidden homicidal tendancies linked to her inability to find a bra ; judge cameron is apparently a homicidal pervert who became obsessed with his own sense of power and now likes to chop things up with axes ; ms. callingham is an aged poet who serves as a sort of soothsaying old hag from macbeth before the cat gets her tongue ; and danny is an insane idiot who was included in the cast as the random element that the plot can not control , and who 's antics serve as the real catalyst for the series of tragedies & murders that ultimately take place in this dark , old , creepy house in the middle of nowhere.the house itself is a wonderful set , with a threadbare early 1970 's decor that is remarkable in it 's unremarkableness , with a fantastic use of color achieved by subtle ambient lighting .
the house is a series of hallways and rooms with shiny brown wooden floors , twisting , confined stairways , secreted closets and passageways leading to the different larger areas , and of course the basement mentioned in the title -- visited only once , but boy it sure proves to be a doozy !
i love the frosted old freezer where sam keeps his stash of popsicles , the utterly plain exteriors that remind me of a summer home our family used to visit every year & force us to swelter in the heat : everyone is covered with beads of persperation and looks exhausted , and even the ever cheerful sam at one point begins to suspect that bad things are happening , though he can not understand what it all means and rosie h. is too firm in her belief of her profession to even suspect what has really happened , and while ms. holotik 's limitations of an actress may have diminished the effectiveness of her big revelation scene , she 's a great screamer when all hell starts to break loose , and brownrigg indulged of some nice camera shots of her in various suggestive poses or stages of undress that show off what a pretty lady she is without exposing anything more than her contract stipulated .
too bad !
the real show stealer is sam , however , and fans of what i have been taught to refer to as splatter cinema will not be disappointed by the rather shocking finale , and there is something moving about how sam runs to the protection of his friend and brutally kills everyone within arms reach in a matter of seconds that either suggests he was one mean motha before his lobotomy , or the film is cut .
in any event you wo n't be prepared for the ending the first time you see it , even though you as the viewer know what the score is long before anyone else in the film has put it all together.except for one person : rhea macadams ' uproariously stereotyped old coot mrs. callingham [ who seems to be inspired by the donald sutherland old woman character from the michael reeves ' 1964 christopher lee film castle of the living dead , in addition to a rather nasty death by round spike to the eye ] , who not only predicts the future , but has the film 's most laugh out loud amusing bit of dialogue while on a walk in the garden with ms. holotik that runs something like this -- '' it 's really beautiful out here .
do you get out much , mrs .
callingham ? ''
asks holotik , to which the old woman replies '' it 's you who needs to get out .
`` hilarious , and one of those things you got ta kind of see for yourself to `` get '' .
do n't look in the basement is available on at least a half dozen `` bargain bin '' codefree dvd releases by companies like brentwood home video , diamond entertainment , vci and platinum disc corp. 's horror classics series ; i kind of like alpha video 's sexily gorgeously decorated $ 6 release from 2003 : dig through those bargain bins !
but make sure you get one with the 89/90 minute print contained therein ; an older 83 minute version is downright confusing due to some of the trims , and you really need to see the ending credits as intended to bring this sick , twisted and surprisingly entertaining yarn to it 's end.masterpiece ?
maybe not compared to the exorcist or rosemary 's baby , but it is a very uniquely american horror film , and a genuine classic of the drive-in age that deserves to be rediscovered by anyone looking for something made with more than just a little bit of brain juice , and not a penny more than they absolutely needed .
***1/2 out of ****