ben marshall , a teen ager from a religious background , is made aware about the financial situation at home by his domineering mother laura .
she suggests him to find a temporary job in order to contribute to the household .
in fact the family has taken a widower , to board with them .
robert marshall , the father , is a pastor at the local church ; he 'd much rather be in the country watching birds than tending to the souls entrusted to his church.the job ben applies is with an older actress , evie walton , who wants him to do things for her around the house .
`` dame '' evie , as she calls herself , is a woman of a certain age whose career has died maybe because she was not that great .
in fact the only memorable appearance seems to be in a soap opera which was popular but she 'd rather forget about it .
evie , who is a compulsive liar , tells ben she 's dying , only to forget it conveniently , later on when she comes clean to the boy .
ben is obviously in awe of the larger than life personality of his employer .
he has been taking driving lessons .
evie asks him to take a camping trip , which he does against his better judgment .
he knows that it will provoke his mother 's fury .
not content with that , evie decides to go on to edinburgh , where she has been invited to read at an arts festival .
it is this trip that solidifies their bond .
ben gets to meet and taste the pleasures of the flesh with a sympathetic bryony.when ben gets back , everything crumbles at home .
his mother , who has been having an affair with a parishioner , decides to leave the family in favor of the young man she has been having an affair with .
ben and evie 's relationship survives the test of time .
he also begins to see his own father in a different light .
jeremy brock , the writer of `` driving lessons '' and other memorable english films , takes his first directorial job with this engaging comedy .
the mixture of show business and religion , loyalty and friendship , are explored in his screen treatment making it a fun time at the movies .
we have seen the similar situation before as in `` billy elliott '' , where julie walters plays a nurturing role with a younger man .
we had read the film was based on mr. brock 's own experience while working dame peggy ashcroft when he was young .
julie walters , who plays evie walton , is perhaps the best excuse to watch the movie .
she always delivers .
ms. walters is a welcome presence in any film she appears and she does wonders with her fake `` dame '' .
laura linney , a luminous player herself , does n't quite get our sympathy with her icy mother .
rupert grint , famous for his harry potter 's movies plays ben , the young man who sees in evie a kind soul .
nicholas farrell is the betrayed father .
michelle duncan has a small role in which she shines .