driving lessons is a little film that sneaks up on you .
what at first seems to be a bit of fluffy nonsense comedy british style is at its base a very fine story about coming of age and the needs for significant friendship of both the young and the elderly .
writer jeremy brock ( 'mrs .
brown ' , 'charlotte gray ' , 'the last king of scotland ' ) here directs his own screenplay and the result is a cohesive , progressively involving tale filled with fascinating and diverse characters , each performed by sterling actors.ben marshall ( rupert grint , standing firmly on his own as a developing actor post 'harry potter ' series ) is a quiet , plain little poetic seventeen-year-old living with his bird watching vicar father ( nicholas farrell ) and his obsessive compulsive , rigid , evangelical do-gooder mother ( laura linney ) in a home where 'needy people ' , such as the murderous cross-dressing mr. fincham ( jim norton ) , take precedence over family matters : the mother is by the way having an affair with priest peter ( oliver milburn ) , using ben as her cover !
sad ben is among other things attempting to learn to drive a car .
his mother is a poor teacher and decides he needs professional lessons and needs to get a job to help pay for poor mr. fincham 's needs .
ben follows an ad and meets dame eve walton ( julie walters ) , an elderly has-been actress who is as zany as any character ever created .
she hires ben and the fireworks begin .
through a series of incidents , including a camping trip evie demands they take , the two learn life 's lessons missing from each other 's natures : ben learns self respect and self confidence and evie finds a true friend who will allow her to drop her stagy facade and be the dear human being she has been hiding.julie walters , always offering the finest skills of acting in every character she creates , finds a role like no other here : she is outlandishly wild and lovable .
rupert grint is exactly the right choice for the challenged coming of age ben .
the chemistry between the two is as tender as that in the classic film 'harold and maude ' .
laura linney is as always a superb actress playing a role quite different from her usual repertoire .
and the supporting cast is a panorama of fine characterizations .
this film is a delightful surprise and one sure to warm the heart and entertain those who love fine writing and direction and acting - and message !
grady harp