i suppose i like this film as well as any i know ; it is not perfect , but under the title `` the americanization of lily '' this charming and memorable semi-musical satire might i suggest have been appreciated more , and still loved by those who recognized its special blake edwards'-produced spirit of gentleness , clever humor and solid narrative .
the improbably but delightful story-line follows lili smith , a fringe-type spy for the germans in a much simpler and less black-and-white war ; lili schmidt passing as smith is helping her uncle who is patriotic too , for germany but neither cruel nor political , merely opportunistic .
lili 's target is william larrabee , a charismatic u.s. squadron leader who can supply her valuable information .
the plot thickens comes when lili falls in love with larrabee , has her eyes opened to the consequences of her playing spy , and sees the effects of combat on wounded men at a hospital and realizes what it might mean to his men whom she has met and likes .
she gets jealous of a rival for larrabee 's affections , then realizes she can no longer do what she has been doing and gives up the spy business .
the logical end of the film comes when after the terrible wwi has ended , as she sings the theme song of the film , `` wishing '' in a darkened theater , one by one the members of larrabee 's squadron appear , including her lover himself , indicating they have forgiven her and their former opponents ; and even uncle kurt enthusiastically joins in the singing of `` it 's a long to tipperraree '' , to indicate all is well with the world again .
this is an audacious and sometime brilliant story idea , written by director blake edwards and william peter blatty of `` john goldfarb '' fame ; and it is a delightful narrative .
larrabee 's squadron , including an inebriate who keeps crashing and other lovable types populate this lively film ; and the feel of this stylish and glowing film is almost epic , both in its scope and realization .
credit must go to jack bear and donald brooks for their costume creations , reg allen and jack stevens for sets , fernando carrere for another beautiful production design , henry mancini for his sensitive and appropriate musical score , and to russell harlan for his shining cinematography .
in the beautiful footage , the principal actors are julie andrews as lili , rock hudson as larrabee , keremy kemp outstanding as lili 's uncle kurt , michael witney , lance percival as the inebriate pilot , gorgeous gloria paul as lili 's stripteasing rival , and many other fine actors in smaller parts .
it is hard to say enough nice things about the pace , or the cleverness of the just-this-side-of broad comedy ; this element is introduced by edwards to leaven the horrors of actual warfare , to example the almost comic-opera approach with which men made war back in a more innocent-minded era of human civilization.. this comedy also helps prepare the way for lili 's conversion from uncritical acceptance of a duty to the german state to acceptance of the reality of what she is doing and potentially what she may be causing .
this is a rare `` sense-of-life '' film about lili 's `` americanization '' , her assertion of herself in the real world and then among others before tragedy can happen .
it is haunting , i find , and beautiful in many ways .
i consider it to be blake edwards'masterpiece of directing ; and under the title `` the americanization of lili '' i believe with hardly any changes it might have been recognized as the polished sapphire of a film it is by every standard i know .