i ca n't disagree with a previous comment that `` driving lessons '' is more than a little twee , but one man 's indictment is another 's endorsement , i suppose .
in my book this film succeeds on pure charm , no small feat in itself.i ca n't help but wish the story was a little less conventional given the amount of acting talent in it , but by the end the plot seems more like a backdrop for the character interactions anyway .
julie walters ' dame evie is a gloriously over the top and over the hill actress .
though evie has n't had steady work in years , it 's unclear the last time she visited reality , if ever ( think edina from `` abfab '' at 65 , at one point she is even forced to come to grips with her kitsch-factor ) .
some may find her annoying , but i think that 's the point , to emphasize just how much she pushes the reserved ben 's ( rupert grint ) buttons to force him out of his shell .
ben is equally isolated from reality , living his whole life under the thumb of his overly dependent mother , who laura linney manages to breath some life into , despite being a fairly one-dimensional character ( ye olde overbearing religious mom ) .
i was rather impressed with rupert grint who i found to give a very honest and believable performance ( not to mention sweet as all get-out ) , i ca n't think of many teen actors today for whom i can say that.the heart of the movie is what happens when ben and evie 's worlds collide .
at first ben is understandably tentative , but also intrigued , as evie is essentially the exact opposite of everything he 's ever known .
with the combination of evie 's persistence and ben 's helpful nature a genuine sweetness develops between them , culminating in an unlikely road trip that gives ben his first real taste of independence.the tone is consistently light even through a few brief melodramatic bits , but there was still a surprising amount of emotional resonance , a credit to the main actors .
all in all i 'd say that if you 're willing to sit back and let yourself be charmed by some lovely performances , `` driving lessons '' should n't disappoint .
however , if `` cute '' is not in your movie vocabulary , best to stay away.one other minor note , the soundtrack features the music of sufjan stevens prominently , a nice touch .