there is a running thread in film comedy that all the great comics are just falling short of the law or on going to jail .
think of that conman 's conman w.c.fields in the old fashioned way , or the marx brothers in a night at the opera , or chaplin in the adventurer , of mae west in she done him wrong .
the skirting of the law is inevitable , and when they end up on the side of the law the results are actually still hostile between the forces of law and order and the comic .
think of lloyd in his first talkie , welcome danger , trying to `` assist '' the san francisco police department in the midst of a crime wave , and making police sergeant edgar kennedy want to kill him .
think of laurel and hardy as ill-fated cops in midnight patrol .
i find this type of hostility is so patent in all these giants ' ( and their peers ' ) comedy that even a fake title for a film deals with it .
think of jerry seinfeld in one episode of his series creating a three stooges short , sappy pappies , where the boys end up being electrocuted for murder.buster keaton frequently pulls in the forces of law and order to be his opponents in his comedies .
look at steamboat bill , jr. , where he tries to spring his dad from a calaboose .
but he actually had more conflict from police forces in his shorts .
in convict 13 he is dragged back to prison when mistaken for an escaped convict .
in cops ( perfect title - if you see it you 'd understand ) the police force of a large city is repeatedly looking for keaton , mistaken for a terrorist ) .
and in the goat he is unable to avoid the police for most of the film.keaton is a tramp just looking for food .
but he is totally unlucky .
when he sees a stranger throw a lucky horseshoe ( which keaton earlier ignored ) over his shoulder , and then find a wallet full of money , keaton tries the same thing , and hits a cop in the head .
the cop gives chase , and keaton ( as luck would have it ) runs into another cop , tries to act normal , but ends by throwing the other cop into the path of the first .
soon he has three cops chasing him .
briefly shaking them he walks by a window at the local jail where local murderer `` dead shot dan '' ( malcolm st. clair* ) is being photographed .
passing in back of the barred windows , keaton is stupid enough to stop and look straight in .
the desperado notes this and ducks as the picture is taken .
when dead shot flees the police , it is keaton 's face on all the wanted posters.
( *st .
clair would eventually be a successful director of silent and early sound comedies , although in his later biography would be a stint at 20th century fox where his work with laurel & hardy was below par . )
keaton flees to another town by train ( disconnecting the passenger cars containing his pursuers from the locomotive and tender ) .
this is the film ( by the way ) that has two famous keaton jokes .
his arrival on the locomotive is done in a distant shot , with it coming closer and closer , and suddenly the audience sees keaton sitting on the cowcatcher .
the second famous sequence goes later ( and may have influenced chaplin somewhat in the beginning of city lights ) .
keaton had accidentally knocked out a man who was arguing too violently with a pretty woman with a dog ( virginia fox ) .
when he sees the poster 's calling him a murderer he thinks he killed the man .
he is being chased in this town by a suspicious chief of police ( joe roberts ) , and momentarily loses roberts in the park .
a statue of `` man-of-war '' is being constructed and the sculptor is unveiling a clay model of the horse ) .
keaton is seen seated on the clay model , trying to maintain his dignity as the clay legs of the horse start collapsing under his weight .
keaton manages to meet the pretty ms fox , who invites him home for dinner .
only he does n't realize her father is roberts .
the last five minutes of the film deal keaton fleeing and avoiding roberts while he and fox get away together.it 's a funny comedy , and a wonderful example of keaton 's work at his best .