after seeing undisputed 2 , i knew what to expect from isaac florentine.the shepherd : border patrol is a decent flick ( not van damme 's best , but definitely not his worst . )
there is some bad acting from vd 's supporting cast , but it makes sense.the storyline and plot has all been done before , so it 's nothing new .
i mean this is van damme .
we do n't really expect much of an amazing plot do we ?
so lets talk about what we all want to watch this movie for anyway : the fighting.without giving anything away , i thought the way the fights were filmed and shot were well done , way better than a few of vd 's recent movies such as second in command , in which the entire end fight is horrible .
with florentine behind the camera , and if you 've seen undisputed 2 , he seems to know how to photograph fights and enjoys it .
a few of the fights in the shepherd reminded me of vd 's older stuff which is what we all want to see .
the fights were good , and i said `` hah , awesome '' out loud a few times .
but i was hoping for just a bit more considering how good i thought undisputed 2 was.something i found intriguing was vd 's daughter in the film , i thought `` wow she 's kinda hot '' come to find out , its bianca van varenberg , jc 's real life daughter .
i have never seen her before so that was a nice treat.all in all , this movie is not half bad .
yeah the story has been done before but at least jc was attempting to make a good movie .
next time though , add more hand to hand combat !
i think he still has what it takes to do another big budget movie ... his acting has improved since he 's been doing dtv 's and he really is in great shape at 47. i do n't know about you but i 'm one of the ones who thinks that most of his dtv 's are actually good with the exception of derailed .
all he needs to do is get back into `` bloodsport '' shape , and make a martial arts movie ... and i think people would respond well even though he 's not jet li .
this movie is definitely worth the rental .
= )