the original female convict scorpion is an all time masterpiece .
the first sequel , jailhouse 41 , was not quite as good in my opinion , though it 's still notable for the fact that it took the idea from the original and created something in a completely different style .
director shunya ito has managed to do the same thing again with this film ; the story is a bit different here , but still he 's managed to take what made the previous entries excellent and better than many films of this type and craft something fairly original around it .
again the action focuses on nami matsushima ( a.k.a .
`` scorpion '' ) and this time she 's out of the jailhouse and not too keen on the idea of going back .
after escaping from pursuing police officers , one thing leads to another and scorpion finds herself getting it together with a prostitute and her retarded brother .
the prostitute ends up getting impregnated by the retarded brother ( ... ) , while scorpion is kidnapped and caged up by someone who she made an enemy out of in prison .
but scorpion does n't like spending time behind bars and it 's not long before she 's back to doing what she does best.the film gets off to a great start as we see scorpion hack the arm off a copper intent on taking her back to jail .
from there , however , the film slows down a lot and beast stable ends up being more of a drama than the previous two films .
that 's not to say that there is n't still plenty of action - scorpion still spends a lot of time in 'revenge mode ' and the film is n't exactly short on general sleaze .
meiko kaji once again reprises her role as the sinister title character and it 's another understated , almost wordless performance .
her screen presence is great , however and she manages to have a menacing presence despite being only small physically .
the plot structure for this film is similar to the other two in that it all builds into a crescendo of revenge .
there are more people who have angered scorpion in this film than in the previous two so this section takes up a fairly large part of the film .
there 's a few surreal sequences , not as many as in the first film and nowhere near as in the second , but the film stays in with the rest of the series on that point .
overall , i would say this film is between the first two in terms of quality - not as great as the original and slightly better than the second .