since the past couple of days i 'm really hooked on the `` female scorpion '' series and i keep hitting myself over the head because i waited until now – which is way too long – before purchasing the whole box set .
`` beast stable '' is the third brilliant effort in a row , and the undeniably main trump of this series is how the writers always came up with something entirely new and different for each installment .
never before , or after , has there been an exploitation series that offered so much variety when it comes to story lines , settings , themes and filming styles .
the original more or less qualified as a so-called `` women-in-prison '' flick ( but already an atypical one ) , but you ca n't possibly categorize parts 2 and 3 as such , since they hardly feature any footage within prison walls .
and the overall tone and atmosphere keeps changing with each new episode as well .
the first film was harsh and gritty , whereas the second was psychedelic and part three is almost mainly melodramatic .
do n't let this last description discourage you , however , as `` beast stable '' still features more than enough exploitative themes and disturbing footage in spite of the dramatic ambiance .
the opening sequence , for example , is downright fantastic .
sasori , still a fugitive from the law , literally chops her way to freedom on the subway when there 's no other possibility than to cut off the arm of the persistent policeman that handcuffed her .
her run through the city with the cut-off arm dangling on hers while the credits appear on screen , accompanied by the familiar theme song , is just pure and genuine exploitation gold !
the story compellingly continues with our heroine desperately trying to lead an anonymous life in the big city , but the poor thing simply ca n't escape her past or even new types of agony .
sasori befriends a prostitute , though without exchanging dialog , and takes on a job in a sewing atelier .
her own retarded brother ( ! )
impregnates the prostitute , while sasori gets in trouble with the local pimping and underground crime network .
she cleverly prevents a thug from taking advantage of her body , encounters a former enemy from prison and furiously avenges one of the prostitutes when she gets submitted to a barbaric abortion .
meanwhile , the one-armed cop continues to obsessively prowl the streets , looking for retribution against sasori .
our multi-talented director shunya ito formidably criss-crosses all these story lines to a powerful wholesome and never once loses grip on the visual aspects or ingenious filming style .
`` beast stable '' features some of the most impressive compositions and ingenious camera angles you can imagine , the editing is flawless and the exterior locations are effectively depressing .
those who know sasori 's character a bit are aware that the film seriously lacks memorable dialogs , but this always gets widely compensated with meiko kaji 's wondrous on screen charisma and menacing grimaces .
there 's very little sleaze , apart from the aforementioned incestuous sub plot , but the brief flashes of extreme violence are terrific and the twisted ending is almost too brilliant for words .
in fact , i think part three might just be the greatest ( or at least , my favorite ) one of the series so far .
my only small and totally irrelevant point of criticism is regarding the ridiculous sounds one of the birds produces when sasori is locked up in a cage .
that bird sounds like a ventriloquist 's dummy with stomach cramps .