there 's hell to pay when you cross nami matsushima ( meiko kaji ) , female scorpion , and a dangerous group of thugs ( ..including their sadistic head pimp and his equally repellent lady ) , operating a prostitution ring with an iron fist , does just that .
hell hath no fury like scorpion , and a determined detective , gondo ( mikio narita ) , seeking revenge for decapitating his arm after handcuffing her , will do whatever it takes ( ..and that includes intimidating anyone who might know her whereabouts ) to catch nami .
nami finds an ally in hooker yuki ( yayoi watanabe ) , who provides her a temporary shelter .
yuki has a retarded brother who suffered a brain injury during a job , and must take care of him ( ..in a disturbing revelation , regarding incest , she also provides his sexual needs ! )
..she , in actuality , keeps him locked up in a room while working the streets !
meanwhile , nami is targeted by a vile neighbor once she finds a place of her own ( ..she works as a sewer ) , and he threatens to turn her into the authorities ( ..nami was an escaped convict , who fled a subway from the cops ) if she does n't supply him sexual favors .
his wife dumps a tea kettle of boiling water all over his face and body , resulting in death , & the prostitution clan come looking for nami to pay the debt of losing a very important member of their organization .
that 's when katsu ( reisen lee ) , the pimp 's lover and confidant , realizes that the one responsible for the loss of their loyal member is a former inmate of hers , scorpion .
subduing her with an injected liquid drug , placing her in a bird cage ( ! )
, katsu embellishes in her imprisonment .
what ultimately fuels nami 's rage is watching a prostitute die outside her cell , a victim of a forced late-term abortion , left to bleed to death .
finding a scalpel clutched in her hand ( ..from the operation room ) , nami will break free from the cage and prey upon each member of the clan responsible for the hooker 's death .
the series of scalpel murders provide gondo with an opportunity to catch nami , and he 'll trap her in the underground sewers below the city , but can he catch or kill her ?
especially if yuki comes to her aid ?
trust me when i say there was no shackles binding director shunya ito or his film-making team because female prisoner scorpion : beast stable is yet another perverse , deranged , and ultra-violent entry in the very entertaining series .
equipped with fine production values and a visually stylistic talent for capturing all of the madness in imaginative ways , ito pulls you right ( ..or he did me ) into the twisted drama that always exists when nami matsushima is on screen .
when you have a protracted opening credits sequence where your anti-heroine is fleeing through the crowded city streets with a man 's severed arm handcuffed to her , the viewer has to know what they 're in for !
the incestuous sub-plot is simply bizarre ( ..and it 's shot in a soft-core way with the retarded brother humping his numb , cold sister with dead eyes staring ahead ! )
, and the entire abortion sequence is rather hard to sit through .
but , the abortion angle , as disturbing as it is , provides motivation for nami 's revenge..despite nami 's imperfect ways , and her criminal nature , you would rather see her take these cretins out than vice versa .
interesting angle with detective gondo , as well .
gondo is willing to break the rules , and he becomes a force-of-nature towards anyone who stands in his way of capturing his mortal enemy .
his fate at the end , visiting another enemy of nami 's , in an isolated cell , while she looks on , perfectly encapsulates what makes these films so ridiculous yet so entertaining .
the scalpel murders is a montage of slumping scumbags , in various places , the blades protruding from flesh , with nami leaving the crime scenes very driven to wipe the whole clan out in memory of a fallen victim of unfortunate circumstances .
while the film is essentially a comic book adventure , there 's a sadness that permeates , and few characters come away without flaws .
i imagine many will walk away from this scoffing at how unrealistic female prisoner scorpion : beast stable is ( ..specifically how nami is able to escape capture time and time again , accomplishing her goals of revenge , paying back all those who have wronged her ) , but i looked at it as a violent action cartoon , much like the later 80 's films , and enjoyed it for what it was .
as always , this film features some beautiful asian actresses and some colorful heavies .
meiko kaji , almost always reserved/quiet , yet chilly staring down her enemies with violent intent , is in fine form ( ..in more ways than one ) and reisen lee , as her cross-eyed , repugnant adversary , runs away with the picture as a perfectly realized contemptibly abusive foe worthy of psychological torment ( ..when both are in prison , nami 's ways of torturing her are sweet ) .
my favorite scene has nothing to do with the plot , but is so wonderfully wrong , features a dog discovering gondo 's rotted severed arm , walking through a street eventually finding a resting place to chew on it !