i have been looking forward to the release of this dvd ( and it 's follow-up { female prisoner scorpion : # 701 's grudge song } ) for some time .
i very much enjoyed the first two movies of this series .
after just watching this film , i would have to say that this is probably my favorite of the three .
all three of these movies were directed by shunya ito .
what is great about them , though , is that , even though they all feature the same lead character ( wonderfully played by meiko kaji ) , they are each vastly different from the others .
the first movie ( female prisoner # 701 : scorpion ) is more or less a typical women in prison movie .
but the character of scorpion is very intriguing - very reminiscent of the anti-heroes of many spaghetti westerns .
and the director often used some very interesting and unusual visual approaches to the material .
the second movie ( female convict scorpion : jailhouse 41 ) is a real tour-de-force .
not so much a wip movie as the bulk of the film has scorpion and six other escaped inmates on the lam .
this movie ( female prisoner scorpion : beast stable ) is the third in the series and the last one directed by shunya ito .
this one plays out as much more of a crime drama .
once again , our heroine is on the run .
but this time out , she has managed to maintain a certain amount of normalcy in her life ( relatively speaking anyway ) .
she gets a job , she finds a place to live , she makes a friend on the outside .
but , of course , everything has to unravel eventually .
fps : beast stable has a more straight-forward story that is told at a more leisurely pace than its predecessors .
but i found it to be engaging from beginning to end .
and do n't worry : there is still plenty of depravity to go around in this movie !
but i think these movies transcend most exploitation films because the more disturbing elements are played in a straighter tone rather than being used exclusively for in-your-face shock value .
yes , there were definitely moments in this movie where i cringed mightily .
but i did n't feel that they detracted from the value of the story ( well , maybe a time or two ) .
one thing i have greatly enjoyed about these films is the continued build-up of scorpion 's mythos .
with this entry character development is used much more extensively than in the previous two .
we get to see that she is much more than just a stone-hearted vengeful badass !
as i mentioned earlier in this review , a fourth movie followed .
it also features meiko kaji as scorpion but had a different director .
without giving anything away i want to mention that fps : beast stable ends in such a way as to make a sequel completely unnecessary .
the fourth film is still quite good but it seems to play as a superfluous footnote to a mind-blowing trilogy.i would highly recommend this movie to anyone interested in out-of-the-ordinary films .
fps : beast stable can be enjoyed as a stand-alone piece ( as can the first two movies ) but i would also recommend watching the others first if you have not already done so .