earth final conflict began like a new world , a new vision from the creator of star trek , something fresh and unique full of great elements .
a very good cast with an extremely credible kevin kilner as william boone , an ex cop good begins to work as guard of some kind of ambassador of a mysterious alien race ( talons ) , after the dead of his wife in strange circumstances .
but soon the character of kilner joins to a group with the mission to discover what are the truth intentions of the aliens , why they seem to be so nice and care for the human race .
soon this resistance group begin to discover the sinister plans of the talons using the humans in they own problems to survive they own destruction .
as i said before , the show began great , all was almost perfect , including characters like da'an , the original da'an was a big mystery because he seems to be a nice creature but at the same time he has his own evil plans manipulating some people in earth .
soon came zo'or who was n't bad but ... mark the beginning of the fall of this show because he became the first big enemy of humans , the incarnation of evil , killing what could be something greater in da'an .
the first seasons ends in a great way with the dead of boone and the second shows a new lead character ( liam ) an hybrid being of human and kimera ( another alien race ) with some very interesting powers .
he replace kilner character in a good way so another storylines make it better , including the conflict with the jaridians and the atavus .
but as i said lines before the evilness of zo'or begin to take more importance so the new conflicts were less realistic as the same talons .
with time the whole great storyline of the alien roots of liam where almost totally erased the same with other things of the previous seasons .
so when the final season began the original earth final conflict was just an almost forgotten dreams , all the magic was missing , just to let some vain intents to keep alive the show including the return of kilner and liam for a few episodes .
the final episode was just the evidence of how bad was the show with so many bad changes ( to think the writers of some episodes did n't know anything about the first stories ) , it was one of the worst end i have ever seen in a tv show .
a real shame because earth final conflict began like something unique , fresh , the stories the cast , after watch so many show from usa , something from canada from the mind of the creator of star trek was wonderful but in the end all change to worse .
i hope someday someone make a remake of this show , of course using nothing from season fourth and fifth ( except the cast , everyone were perfect in his work ) .
i still can dream in a better things .