( contains spoilers ) people who put a lonely heart 's ad in the newspaper are often idealists .
they try to put into a few words everything they are and expect .
the exchange of letters is full of hope ... louis mahe ( jean paul belmondo ) , owner of a cigarette company on the ile de la reunion ( east of madagascar ) is so affected by the letters of julie roussell that he proposes to her .
but not the expected pretty brunette comes from board of the `` mississippi '' , but - catherine deneuve .
and we know from the start that she is a marriage imposter and that a crime has taken place .
she shows no interest in `` julie 's '' wardrobe ( she does not even get her trunk open ) and neglects her canary until it dies .
but the most basic tricks of seduction ( an open zipper ) are sufficient to transform louis into a pliable little dog .
first : a joint bank account .
and then , when julie 's sister draws attention to herself , the flight .
with 27,850 millions of louis ' 28 millions - she would have needed his signature for the entire sum.louis and julie 's sister engage a private detective ( michel bouquet ) .
louis contrives to trace marion ( deneuve 's real name ) in antibes where she works as taxi-girl - her gangster-lover left her penniless , or rather centimeless .
louis finds himself unable to kill her .
she tells her story : orphan .
precocious .
lesbian experiences .
many sugardaddies .
jail - and soon she leads him by the nose again .
the detective turns out to be sly as a fox and tenacious as a blood hound ; louis and marion bury his body in the cellar .
they flee to paris , where louis discovers that marion has a costly taste .
she worships money like a deity .
he sells his firm at a fraction of its value .
but when the corpse of the detective is discovered ( a flood ) they have to flee again - without the money .
life in a mountain lodge , together with a whining loser - marion can think of a more cheerful life without this appendage ... a high point in the careers of everybody involved .
belmondo 's self-deceit makes him nearly endearing .
deneuve looks beautiful in her wardrobe by yves st. laurent , and her performance is delightful : at first she fakes the fragile wifey - too timid to ask her husband for money , that 's why the joint bank account is needed - but after being exposed she sounds like katharine hepburn in the jail scene of bringing up baby .
the scenery is spectacular - the tropics , the riviera , paris .
truffaut directs with self-evident aplomb : the sixties were the only decade when european films were head and shoulders above american productions .
after this film truffaut was able to look his idol , alfred hichcock , full in the face .