jewel thief is *the* crime thriller of bollywood , and why should it not be ?
it is directed by the biggest exponent of the crime thriller art in indian cinema vijay anand ( 'johny mera naam ' and 'teesri manzil . )
i could watch this movie for any of the following reasons ( in order of importance ) :1 vijay anand 's direction 2 r d burman 's music 3 dev anand 4 vyjayanthimala 5 ashok kumar 6 majrooh sultanpuri 's lyricseven if jewel thief is not a bond movie it definitely has bond babes .
helen , tanuja , and the mysterious vyajanthimala ( and some cameos . )
but our sauvé vinay ( dev anand ) is anything but bond .
he is out of control for most of the story and goes where the story takes him almost always as confused as we are .
he even flirts with anju ( tanuja ) trying to hit her romantic nerve , just so that he can get employed in her father 's shop.dev anand might be in a double role - well i do n't want to spoil your movie or else i would have told you .
that is what most of the mystery is about .
dev anand works in a jewelry shop and there is a robbery when he is supposed to be at work - though is not , or at least has a perfect alibi .
we wonder who did it , is it dev anand as 'vijay ' the person he claims to be or is it 'amar ' someone we have not yet seen but many people claim is his look alike .
comes 'shalu ' ( vyjayanthimala ) who even claims that he is her fiancé , in a tense situation dev anand has to prove that he is vinay and not amar .
while everyone wonders if dev anand is vinay or amar he is asked to remove his socks .
amar we are told has 6 digits on one of his foot .
while we watch with bated breath the events that are about to unfold dev anand even finds time to joke .
the real life brothers director vijay anand and actor dev anand have many movies between them this is not the best of them but definitely the best in crime thriller .
there are moments of hitchcock 's north by northwest , but the movies are very different .
except for the confusion about who is who , a treacherous female lead and lot of traveling there is n't a lot of similarity .
dev anand could very well be amar in addition to being vijay .
people have seen him , they identify him where ever he goes .
there are too many of those people for this to be a fraud .
finally vinay thinks it is better to carry along with being amar to find out what is the truth , and it is a sad mistake .
he gets too deep into it , only to be saved by the twists of cinema.when i watched the movie as a kid i was definitely not amused , the ending confused me completely .
even now there are parts about the ending that i do not like , but i 'd recommend this movie anyway.even as a kid i enjoyed the songs this movie has to offer .
'yeh dil ... ' - a definite loafers song in kishor kumar 's voice .
i could hear 'rulake gaya ... ' whole day long .
ditto for 'aasmaan ke neeche ' which is set 'under the skies ' of gangtok ( at least the story line suggests that ) .
'raat akeli hai ' among the sexiest song to come out of hindi cinema featuring tanuja as the seductress .
'meri taraf dekho ' - helen 's cabaret and we 'look at her ' .
'hothon pe ... ' - now , could there be any better thriller of a song than this .
as the song progresses we are more tensed than we ever were and the words 'hidden in shalu 's lips ' add to it .