jewel thief is a rare breed of film - completely noir in its story but nothing noir about the presentation .
a young man vinay , superbly played by a newly face lifted dev anand at age 40+ , is estranged from his police officer dad and finds a job in a jeweler 's store .
soon random people come up to him and call him amar .
using just a few pithy moments the presence of a `` doppelganger '' is established .
then a woman shalini ( vyjayantimala ) comes forward and claims to be engaged to said doppelganger .
she is accompanied by her loving brother ( ashok kumar ) who is so convinced that vinay is actually amar he makes him take his shoe off and prove that he is not aamr , the 6 toed one .
the jeweler 's super cute daughter anju ( tanuja ) is completely enamored with vinay .
amidst all this confusion there is a jewel thief on the loose and he is stealing at will .
slowly we learn from vinay 's encounter with a super hot night club singer ( helen ! )
that the thief is amar the doppelganger .
many many good looking women ( anju mahendru , faryal ) are after the hero .
the police force , including vinay 's dad , are completely befuddled .
vinay is slowly falling for shalini/shalu and her brother seems to bless the union .
the action moves to sikkim as that is where amar 's next heist is to occur .
the rest is for you to watch - the duplicate , the girls , the men who hang on to vinay 's every word thinking he is their boss amar , the loving brother sister duo - nothing seems quite right , and it takes the deft story telling ( and direction ) by vijay anand to conclude this tale in a highly entertaining manner .
the movie has numerous moments that you will wonder at until they deliciously weave into a grand finale at a dance in a palace in sikkim.i was not a big vyjayanthi fan but she is quite competent here , although at her chubbiest .
she is able to add to the confusion in the story in a subtle way , but is best when she is sorrowful or dancing .
tanuja is cute as a button and i loved her in this film .
i so badly wanted her to get the man .
dev was , well , dev .
if he were not walking like a man with a congenital shoulder defect ( one shoulder always lower than the other ) i would wonder who they had found to imitate him !
yet his style , charm and charisma were unfailing .
in the song yeh dil na hota bechara , only dev could look cool carrying a fishing rod to which a large plastic fish was attached !
ashok kumar was simply awesome - dada moni did not miss a beat the entire movie and turned this into one for the history books.sd burman spun magic with numbers like baithe hain kya uske paas ( helen in a blood red rooster imitation dancing on a bar top ) , aasman ke neeche , rula ke gaya sapna mera , and my personal favorite seductive number raat akeli hai bujh gaye diye.if you are craving a great story , with more twists than a pretzel , wanting to be kept guessing , yet amused and entertained - then go buy or rent jewel thief .
better to buy it , then you can go back and see it again with your buddies .
this one is a keeper .