well , sword in the moon finally got a dvd release in korea , and despite the mostly negative responses i 've heard to it , and the suspiciously tardy dvd release , i could n't help but pick it up - any wu xia film is better than most non-wu xia films in my eyes : d perhaps low expectations were an advantage , because i was quite pleasantly surprised to find the film pretty enjoyable.an assassin is killing a number of ministers who were involved in a revolution that usurped the throne , and the government 's top swordsman is tasked with identifying the culprit .
this does n't take particularly long , but the answer is not one he wanted to hear .
through prolonged flashbacks we learn why , and the history of the swordsman and the assassin , and of the revolution.the film is typically melodramatic for a korean film , and resolutely serious in tone - no hk style comedy moments to be found here .
the story can be a little difficult to follow at first , but all makes sense eventually .
the film goes a bit wobbly at the end , but no worse than a chang cheh film might do , and for the most part i found it enjoyable .
the production values are high , with some good cinematography to capture it .
the fight scenes are n't up to the calibre of the better hk wu xia films , but perhaps they 're not meant to be - the fights are more `` realistic '' , in that they 're less like choreographed dance routines , but there 's some wirework and occasional cgi that put the film in `` wu xia '' mode .
the film does n't have the best cast , unfortunately , with the leads being a tad lacking in charm and occasionally difficult to distinguish from each other .
there 's a young lady in the film that i do n't think i 've seen before , but makes the best impression of any of the principle cast - not just because you see her nekkid ... or perhaps it is : p the film lacks the charm and grace of the better hk wu xia films , and perhaps the beauty too , but i only wish hk would make them half this good anymore - twins effect 2 does not give me hope that *that's* about to happen any time soon , though tsui hark surely still has it in him if he can get the funding and cast .
sword in the moon is not going to go onto my list of favourite wu xia by any means , but it 's a whole heap better than romantic warriors or legend of the evil lake - perhaps better than bichunmoo too , though i did like that film quite a bit more on a second viewing .
obviously it 's nowhere near the wonderful musa , but it 's a different affair altogether really .
sitm will probably get a second viewing within three years , which is perhaps the best indicator of how much i liked it : ) 7/10