the greatest movie ever.how 's that for a contention ?
however , if we look at it through purely cinematic terms , it is clear that three colours red is a masterpiece .
it is not enough to merely say this - three colours red is the masterpiece of world cinema .
if you accept that citizen kane is not human enough , if you accept that star wars is not actually very good , if you accept that ozu and mizoguchi both have to take a step back - then three colours red is the foremost masterpiece of all time .
as a discussion into human morality , three colours red works on an intensely metaphysical level , with a depth that none can match .
blue went almost as far into the human psyche , but stopped as it was going to pull the rabbit out of the hat .
white forced us to reflect on the humanity of equality - this , in retrospect , was better still , but still not quite there .
red , however , is the real thing .
what he expresses in this movie , is an expression of what it is to be human .
in fact , what he expresses is _how_ it is to feel human .
it forces us to examine up to the minutest detail , the very nature of our souls , of our ethical selves .
in red , one may find meaning on one of its several levels .
on the first level , red achieves a high level of verisimilitude - we could have no trouble in calling red an exceptionally entertaining story .
however , the coincidences inherent in the film and its conceits force us to examine the movie as a movie .
it is as if kieslowski is saying : `` ceci n'est pas la réalité '' .
in effect , in pursuing a humanistic goal , kieslowski can also challenge reality .
it is a trick that kieslowski has been attempting since le double vie de véronique , but not until this , his final film , did he finally manage to reach this divine intertwining of fate , philosophy and circumstance .
the actors and actresses , too , appear to be at the mercy of a greater power .
valentine ( irène jacob ) , is aptly name , for she seems to represent an almost pure love .
meanwhile , the idea of first impressions is challenged by jean-louis tritignant 's judge kern , a cantankerous man , who , by the end , becomes an almost all-knowing observer of events - a character who symbolically seems to possess the power to bring characters together - a power to make people happy , a power which he could only achieve through valentine.we have a capability to see films as more than just a series of pictures .
in fact , films have the potential to possess more meaning than literature .
it wo n't happen , of course , but at least we have the power to view this film , knowing that it gives us the power to achieve the something that we ca n't define , but all possess .
a synopsis of this film read : `` a film about a woman who runs over a dog '' .
well , it is.is n't it ?
-simon huxtable