are we allowed to interfere with our fellowmen 's everyday 's life ?
is it possible to intrude upon their intimacy , to penetrate the inwardness of their thoughts violating the privacy of their own home without being blamed ?
the director raises some doubts about these apparently solvable questions , almost sympathetic towards judge jean luis ' destabilizing decision of coming to terms with his own inducted self-seclusion by means of fragments of lives embezzled by him .
`` trois couleurs : rouge '' is based on the concept of `` universal communication conceived as the human desire of an open window on the world '' .
the phone may be considered the main character of the story : after its performance in `` dekalog 9 '' it gives in the beginning the encore to kieslowski 's onlookers , followed step by step in its fast run across the world .
the director looks deeply into the faculty of communication of human beings , without taking up a definite position about the ethical side of individual behavior .
once again he points out to us the unpredictability of future events , venting careful descriptions about strange courses and recourses of life separated from each other by a considerable number of years .
inexplicable combinations oddly converging in a series of continuous and upsetting situations .
- some books falling to the pavement .
- one of them opening casually on a fatal page , predetermining the destiny of a future profession , as in a past similar occurrence .
- glimpses of daily life meeting fleetingly , ideally joined by their fondness for the fictitious musician van den budermayer .
- human fortunes marked by the most ill-fated coincidence.in this piece of work deserving to be seen with our heart 's eyes instead of our mind 's ones we can witness a dialectic game between judge jean luis ' ( jean-louis trintignant ) and valentine dussaut ( irene jacob , maybe the sweetest actress of our times , together with the beautiful winona ryder ) , in a generational conflict between the experience of a world-weary old man and the self-conscious immaturity of a nice girl on the point of facing the steepest path of her ascending way .
kieslowski talks about `` dialogue tests '' between a disappointed human life and a youth unaware of her future , between a spiritless misanthropist and a spontaneous girl full of good sense of unselfishness.and the final parade when the damp odor of tragedy still lingers in the air , with all the main characters of the whole trilogy in full evidence , saved by an accidental stroke of luck thank to the providential script cleverly written , gives us the extreme greetings of this movie master fully used up by his great passion for cinema .
only a sense of bitter regret and emptiness is left to remind us the existence of a void impossible to fill .
good-bye krzysztof .
we miss you so much !