trilogies are very interesting .
some go out with a bang ( lord of the rings ) , some get progressively weaker ( the matrix ) , some get lost in obscurity ( blade , back to the future ) , but some maintain the genius , that seemingly ever-growing bright light that floats beyond the surface of its flawless exterior .
case and point : `` three colors trilogy '' .
this chapter in the trilogy , being the last one , is the most philosophical and thought-provoking .
in `` blue '' we had a more visually stunning , more character-driven plot , in `` white '' it was more of a light hearted , narrative-driven story where we listen more to what the characters say than anything .
`` red '' , however is focused on the `` what ifs '' and `` how comes '' .
it questions our own fate and focuses mainly on the past and the future than the present.this chapter is about a young model who runs over a dog and brings him back to his owner .
she soon finds out that the owner of the dog is actually a cynical retired judge who spies on his neighbors ' phone calls through advanced spying equipment .
all three films in the trilogies have very basic plot lines , but bring a lot more to the story .
consider in `` blue '' , the story of a woman dealing with the loss of her loved ones .
we are constantly shown ideas about the contemporary french society and how that reflects the character 's behavior .
`` red '' is not only about a young woman who finds shelter in an older man 's life , but it is also about chance , hope , and fate.irene jacob stars as valentine dussaut , who at first finds the old man ( jean-louis trintignant ) , whom we never find the name of , extremely self-centered and disgusting .
though through self reflective analysis , and her voyeuristic intentions , she learns that the judge would be the perfect man for her , if only he was 40 years younger .
irene lives across from another , younger judge , who highly resembles the old man .
this is the `` what if '' that keeps circling in the movie .
what if irene were born 40 years ago ?
the old man would have been her perfect match .
but what if the younger judge is actually her perfect match , since he so closely resembles the older one .
valentine does n't know this , only we do , and krzysztof kieslowski subtly suggests this in almost every frame which irene is in .
we are constantly smacked in the face with his presence , as almost a suggestion of irene 's fate.i mention that the old man does not have a name for a reason .
that reason is because it is very symbolic to the overall theme in the story .
we are to compare the old judge to auguste ( jean-pierre lorit ) , the younger judge , in more than one way .
we learn that the old man once had someone he loved but she got away .
in another scene , we see auguste heartbroken as the love of his life gets away with another man .
there are constant reminders of whether or not valentine will ever meet this man .
even though they pass each other without noticing every single day .
there is also the motif of the telephone , to valentine it is a way of keeping sane and updating her life , to auguste it is what leads to his heartbreak , and to the old man , it is the only thing he has left .
these three elements serve to shadow the characters own psychology .
it is a sort of statement about what they are and who they are.all three `` colors '' films stand for a certain principle , most common in france .
`` blue '' stands for liberty ( the personal being ) , `` white '' stands for equality ( being accepted by more than one ) , and `` red '' is fraternity ( to socialize , to learn ) .
and although this final chapter is an obvious focus on the fraternity principle , kieslowski makes sure he brings in the other two as well , in order to connect all three stories .
for example , we see the old man trying to reach out to valentine and enlighten her with his spy equipment , which is a reflection of the equality principle .
we also see near the end that valentine is doing some soul searching and that she 's more concerned about herself than others ( not picking up the phone when michel calls ) , a clear example of liberty .
and with all three principles established , kieslowski nicely connects all of the characters as well , in the final and most heartfelt scene .
`` red '' is about where you could have been if you were older or younger .
it is about whether or not there is someone completely perfect for everyone , and whether or not one person can change your life .
the final chapter in the most awe-inspiring trilogy ever made , this film breaks barriers in both directing and storytelling .
it is not only about our modern life , but about where life could and should be in our modern time .
and although the movie is more subtle than both `` blue '' and `` white '' , it boldly exclaims a statement of love and compassion.it 's hard to imagine that `` red '' was kieslowski 's last film , and that he died at such a young age .
nevertheless , the trilogy will always be his masterpiece and we will always remember him for his work that ranks right up with bergman , fellini , and wenders as a truly remarkable director who 's never been awarded with an oscar .
kieslowski , you have been missed !