valentine , a model in france is separated from her lover who is abroad , they plan to meet up in england , but seem to be growing ever more distant as the film progresses .
one night after declining a pass made by her coworker , she hits a dog named rita .
the dog survives and she returns it to her owner , a hostile retired judge who 's is living as a hermit and eavesdropper , listening in on the conversations of all his neighbours .
she becomes intrigued by the nature of this man and visits him often , often becoming part of his eavesdropping games .
one conversation the two listen in on is of extreme importance though , the conversation between a young soon to be judge and his wife , which we find out parallels the life of the man who is eavesdropping upon them .
as we find out more about the couple , the man reveals more of his story , then continues his story , and we find out if the two men will continue towards the same fate .
little does valentine know how her life , this encounter and the fate of the young judge will become entangled together .
her hitting the dog that day seemed to be fate , a divine sacrifice by the dog for her owner , allowing valentine to be the saviour of the young judge , who is traveling the same path as her dear friend , to prevent him from having such a grim future , filled with loneliness and solitude .
it seems the old man 's dream will come true after all , and he can sleep with a smile on his face for the rest of his days.an amazing finale to possibly the best trilogy of all time !
kieslowski never ceases to amaze me .
he is one of my favourite directors , and one of the most talented directors in the history of cinema .
his use of the colours of the french flag in the three films was nothing short of incredible , every shot , every scene was like a work of art .
three of the most visually appealing movies i 've ever seen .
and his subtle connections between the three films are awesome .
usually signified with a subtle pause , or late focus in a scene , see if you can spot some .
i have to mention this and it is a huge spoiler , i loved the ending , how all the characters of the three films were the remaining survivors of the ferry disaster , with valentine and the young judge together , and the old man watching it on her tv , solidifying his happiness over the suffering which he dealt with for those many years .
i could n't think of a better way to end the film , but a smile on my face , great way to wrap up an amazing film and trilogy !
i recommend this for everyone who loves film , movies , anything ... a work of art !
10 out of 10 for both the movie and trilogy .