first of all , you should watch this only if you do n't mind the lack of subtitles , pornography , kinky sex and utter , horrifying and truly shocking depravity .
i mentioned kinky sex , but to call sex in the second half of the movie `` kinky `` would be a great understatement .
it 's more like a punch in the face if you are n't prepared for this sort of sickness .
that being said , i can go back to reviewing this morbid piece of pseudo - snuff genre brought to us by our fellow japanese .the plot seems to be fairly basic , almost nonexistent : a girl is hired to perform in amateur porn movie .
do n't expect much in first 30 - 40 minutes .
there is some dialog - if you do n't speak japanese it 's not going to mean much to you - that seems to be an occasional chatting between the girl and the crew & performer , then there is some porn ( straight sex ) , and after the scene is finished the performers and the crew take a break .
and then ... it starts to happen .it seems that the girl is talked into performing one more scene - this time tied with the rope .
the abuse begins : whipping , slapping , hot wax ... in the end , girl breaks down and cries .
they untie her .then we see performers and crew sitting at the table as if nothing had happened - except for the girl .
she is visibly shaken and looks like she wants to leave .
she walks to the door , sits on the floor to put her shoes on ... and that 's when hell breaks loose .she is hit in the head with the baseball bat , her wound is treated , she is tied to the bed .
what ensues can be briefly described ( i 'm not going to spoil everything for you ) as rape during dismemberment .
think of `` flower of flesh and blood `` , mix it with porn and you will get the idea .it goes on for about 20 minutes or so .
sfx are very good , makeup too .
everything is shown , with no mercy for the viewer .
you have been warned .i thought `` visitor q `` was a very sick movie .
after watching `` niku daruma `` it looked like a fairytale to me .this movie is so sick , so depraved , so twisted , so disgusting that the harshest words pale in comparison to it 's finale .
too bad it 's released only on vhs so there are no subtitles available .
but the movie still works without them .
so , if you are into ultra sickness , extreme sadism and other beauties of this beloved genre , check this out .
i hope you wo n't have nightmares .8/10 .