ghillie a remake of the telugu `` okkadu ' is thankfully a clarified version of the original .
it packs the same punch and dharani true to his cinematic brilliance delivers it with style and panache .
a flagging vijay 's career with the entry of the likes of surya and vikram on the fray , got the much needed uplift with this movie .
this might well prove to be the best movie vijay has ever been on , considering the choices he has been making since then .
the hard-working actor seems to have lost his bearing what with talented new entrants being accepted both by the industry and public alike.the tightly snug script , which runs at , a neck-break speed revolves around velu , a willful youngster aspiring to make a mark in the game of kabaddi ( a popular game among boys in india ) .
the events following the chance encounter with muthupandi , his rescue of the girl in distress and how he juggles with the aspirations of his friends and his own forms the fulcrum and end of the movie .
vijay fits as a 't ' into the role and essays a subdued and believable portrayal of the boy next door.trisha has more than a stereotyped tamil heroine mantle to play .
the role is far more complex than just a girl in trouble .
with limited dialog 's , trisha exploits her occasional muted expressions and subtle vulnerability to add color to the role .
this is a classic case of a cover page girl coming-of-age to become a professional actress .
trisha became my personal favorite after this movie.the movie ends on predictable lines , although one has to credit the director for keeping the audience guessing on many things including trisha 's change in decision to leave the country .
prakash raj deserves a word of praise for providing the perfect counter-weight for vijay 's role .
his almost indomitable stature in the role of a villain and the apparent chinks in the hero 's armor form a perfect ploy for keeping the audience guessing.overall this is a great movie that deserves at least a single viewing .
i give it a clear 8 out of 10 .