i know not why people considered it trashy or obnoxious ; it 's not like american pie or something .
i know not why people are offended by the universal plugs ; since it 's part of the plot , the advertising is excusable.this is a funny movie with good dialogue , good subtle wit , a good story , a good moral ( that thankfully does n't get too sappy ) , great acting , and a cheesy ending .
( minor spoiler ) the basic premise here is the classic story of a shepherd boy ( muniz ) who lies so much that no one believes him when the wolf ( giamatti ) comes along .
so he gets his best friend kaylee ( bynes ) and they go and drive the wolf crazy.frankie muniz can be annoying in other roles , but not as jason shepherd .
he handles the suave confidence of his character perfectly well , and what appears to be a lack of expression at first glance is really a perfectly executed nonchalantness.amanda bynes .
what more can i say ?
the girl 's got the gift .
she 's funny , talented , versatile , and very , very attractive .
( i 'm only 6 months older than her .
i need to get to california sometime soon . )
in fact , the 'best-friend ' part was originally a boy , but became a girl as soon as the makers saw amanda 's interest .
which works out pretty well , since the part would 've been pretty dull without the blessing of bynes 's abilities.paul giamatti is a very talented man .
while some would play marty wolf as evil and diabolical , giamatti made him-not just a jerk , mind you , but a likeable jerk , a jerk that livens up the screen , rather than intentionally dimming it .
and i doubt many other actors could pull off the psychological breakdown that wolf undergoes as well.all in all , great movie .
loved seeing jaleel white able to mock himself .
loved seeing all the little references & such built into the film .
( one of the guests in the party scene is the director , shawn levy , another is bynes 's former co-star kenan thompson ) loved seeing amanda in those outfits ... ... .. get the dvd if you can .
it 's got all kinds of great extra stuff , and the lovely ms. bynes is your guide through the menus .
: )