this is one of the funniest movies i 've ever saw .
a 14-year old boy jason shepherd wrote an english paper called `` big fat liar '' .
when his skateboard was taken , he had to use his sister 's bike to get to the college on time and he hit a limo .
when he went into the limo , he met a famous producer from hollywood , marty wolf .
when he left the limo , he forgot one thing : his paper !
so marty wolf took it and he turned jason 's english paper into a movie !
when jason admitted that he left his paper in the limo and marty took it , his parents and his english teacher did n't believe him !
so jason and his friend kaylee had to fly to los angeles to go to hollywood to make marty admit he stole his story to jason 's parents .
when jason told marty to call his dad that marty stole that paper , marty tricked him and burned his paper !
jason got so angry that marty burned that paper so marty called security to get jason out of his site !
jason and kaylee realized marty is n't going to admit the truth .
in order to take marty down in phase 2 : the takedown , jason and kaylee put permanent blue dye into the pool and when marty jumps in , his body turns all blue and it would n't come off !
then they put permanent orange dye in marty 's shampoo and when he uses it , his hair turns all orange and it would n't come off too !
finally , they put lots of glue on marty 's earpiece to make him call jason 's father and when marty uses it , it sticks to his ear !
it was funny when marty 's hair and body turns all blue and orange and his headset is glued to his ear !
after that , they tricked marty by telling monty , who is marty 's assistant , that duncan moved to a house where there 's a party going on .
when marty went in to see duncan , he was at the wrong house and all the kids at the party beat him up !
when marty was in the house , jason and kaylee switched the controls of his car .
when marty drove his car , he knew all the controls were switched and he did n't know which button to push .
he 's stupid enough to fall for it .
when marty hit the rear end of the masher , the masher wrecked his car !
it was so funny .
so marty starts to call jason 's dad and tricked him again !
he was on the phone , but it was n't his father , he called security !
after the security got jason and kaylee out of marty 's site , they suggested them to go home .
monty was going to be on jason and kaylee 's side cause she knew that marty was a liar and a jerk so she told rocco , who is one of the security guards that she will take care of the kids .
jason told his father the truth of what he 's been up to for the past 2 days and had his parents come to l.a. when monty came to the kids , she 's going to help the kids move into phase 4 : the payback .
jason splits the crew into 3 teams for phase 4. one team will distract and trick marty until jason 's parents get to the set .
marty first rode with frank jackson , but his car broke down so he rode with jaleel , but he took him into the desert and leave him there .
when marty was in the desert , a helicopter came to rescue him .
after that , one of the blades are jammed so marty and the pilot got off the helicopter .
after that , he was on the way to the set and when jason saw him , marty stopped and saw what jason has : his monkey !
so marty went after jason and kaylee and when they saw lester , he released the water and when the water came , it pushed marty away .
marty was still after the kids and when kaylee went the other way , jason led marty to the top of the apartment building .
at the top , jason was challenging marty by making him admit the truth and marty will never ever tell the truth .
when the crew caught marty in surprise , all the people including jason 's parents who were at the set knew what marty did .
marty was going to kill jason but the only way for jason to escape is jump down from the top !
after that , his parents believed him that marty took his story .
when the people who were on the set left , this is the end of marty .
at the end , jason 's story , big fat liar was a movie .
i cant get enough of it .