although i am very familiar with poet dylan thomas , i know nothing of his life .
whatever his life and specifically his marriage involved , i would imagine that the edge of love ( based on the novel ) manipulates things a bit , but unless you are a historian or a poet , who cares.the movie is less about thomas and more focused on the two most important women in his life .
one is his wife kathrine , and the other is vera who was his first love .
one romantic night on the beach as youths is something that both have tried to put behind them but can not , now grown up they are good friends .
i forgot to mention that this is set during the war .
vera becomes engaged to captain will killing who he gets her pregnant and leaves for war .
while he is away , vera starts to fall for thomas again , and kathrine has fallen out of love with him .
she is also carrying another man 's child .
things get even more emotionally complex when capt killig returnsas you can see , it is a very soap operatic plot , and it takes shape in a fairy drab slow manner , with perhaps one too many sequences of sappy dialogue .
but all is not lost yet .
for a non- hollywood production , i think that the edge of love is about as stylish a picture as one can get .
it is certainly more dimensional and intelligent than about 90 % of contemporary romances , hollywood production or not .
some of it has to do with being set during the war , which sets up emotional conflict that feels more convincing and less artificial , a bit like atonement .
this one features acting and cinematography of equal talent to joe wright 's oscar nominee , but it is in far greater need for stable pacing and progression .
things are okay at the start and finish , but the middle section is where your attention span may be tested , unless you are deeply and profoundly rooted in the story .
i doubt if the edge of love will have that kind of an effect on the viewer , but is a good film to check .
it might even make a good date night movie , considering it is so much smarter than the chick flicks that boyfriends are forced to endure today .