this film flopped miserably in the uk , and it did n't deserve to .
the trailer of this film is slightly misleading , and i guess it mislead critics and audiences into thinking it was `` atonement : part 2 '' .
while the film was marketed that way to capitalise on the earlier success of joe wright 's bafta-winning film , it 's very different in tone .
it focuses on an imagination of sorts of welsh poet dylan thomas ' life during the second world war as the writer of propaganda films for the war effort , and his subsequent return to wales .
director john maybury quickly introduces dylan 's ( matthew ryhs ) childhood sweetheart vera phillips , played by keira knightley .
she was dylan 's first love in their homeland , but the moment has passed , and singer vera only wants it as a beautiful memory .
or does she ?
vera unexpectedly strikes up a close bond with the other woman in dylan 's life , `` queen of ireland , love of my life , mother of my child '' caitlin thomas ( sienna miller ) .
the three form a sort of menage a trois in war-struck london , but vera then falls for a dashing soldier , william killick ( cillian murphy ) .
they quickly marry , with killick leaving for war .
a frightened vera convinces the thomas ' to return witb her to wales , but the three are faced with the realism of the birth of vera 's child , william 's jealousy and shell-shock after returning home , and caitlin realising she can not share dylan with her best friend.filmed on a low budget , this is more of a mood piece than anything else .
it works best as a realisation that some memories and feelings need to be treasured but not renewed .
the performance of sienna miller is particularly excrellent ( unfortunately the paparazzi nonsense detracts from the fact thats she 's quite a talent ) , and knightley and murphy are once again very good .
the let-down is rhys as dylan , who , while the welsh poet himself was no bed of roses , lacks charisma and makes us wonder what these women see in dylan .
the writing is very choppy , some beautiful moments interspersed with sloppiness .
it 's certainly worth watching , however .