where would hollywood have been without fredric march as robert browning or dennis price as lord byron , famous lovers in their day ?
even an actor as normally straitlaced as michael redgrave once brought some moody charm to a portrayal of w.b .
yeats .
writers ' lives are an endless source of inspiration.but of all poets it was dylan thomas , the roistering , free-loving welshman who enjoyed a pint or two ( and drank himself to death in new york at the age of 39 ) , who was closest in spirit to the film industry .
during world war ii , he produced scripts for british propaganda documentaries .
he even wrote the screenplay of a vapid melodrama called the three weird sisters , in which three old maids in a welsh village plot the murder of their rich half-brother .
all that is now forgiven.in john maybury 's the edge of love , thomas is played by the welsh actor matthew rhys .
it 's not a full-scale biopic .
the film covers four years in the poet 's life during world war ii , when he lived with two women : his wife caitlin ( sienna miller ) and a former lover vera phillips ( keira knightley ) , whom he met again by chance during the war .
it seems he loved them both .
the relationship of these extraordinary women -- to thomas and to each other -- is at the heart of maybury 's absorbing film.how it came to be made is a story almost as remarkable as that of the lovers themselves .
rebekah gilbertson , the film 's producer , is the granddaughter of vera phillips and william killick .
william , a war hero ( played in the film by cillian murphy ) , married vera while she was still in love with the poet .
gilbertson was inspired to make the film when she discovered a book about her grandparents , dylan thomas : a farm , two mansions and bungalow , by david thomas , describing their tangled lives .
sharman macdonald , who wrote the screenplay , is the mother of knightley .
the part requires knightley to sing , and her mother included songs especially for her .
surely no film with such felicitous family connections deserves to do other than succeed.we begin in london during the blitz .
bombs are falling , sirens are wailing , and phillips is singing to sheltering crowds in an underground tube station .
in a pub , by chance , she meets thomas and discovers after all these years that he has a wife and child .
phillips and caitlin form a friendship untroubled by jealousy or rancour and are soon sharing beds and bathtubs , listening to thomas read his poems , exchanging intimate secrets and smoking their heads off , as everyone did in wartime .
caitlin turns out to be more experienced in the ways of the world ( `` my first was augustus john , he seduced me when i was 15 '' ) .
but it 's the refined and soulful phillips who stirs thomas 's deepest responses and eventually succumbs to his charms .
in the meantime , she has reluctantly married killick , who has seen her in the tube station and been instantly captivated by her beauty ( if not her singing ) .it is an intense and strangely beautiful film , though thomas himself may be its least impressive character .
he is best remembered for under milk wood , his verse radio play about a day in the life of the mythical welsh village of llareggub , whose name spelt backwards was not something polite english teachers drew attention to .
i once had a vinyl recording of richard burton reading the poem ( he appeared in a film of under milk wood in 1971 ) , and i 've never forgotten the creamy , seductive quality of his voice .
the legendary charisma , the magnetism of the man , is something i missed in rhys 's performance .
thomas comes across as a strangely pallid , even secondary , figure compared with the women in his life.in his previous film , love is the devil , maybury explored the turbulent life of painter francis bacon and his sadomasochistic relationship with his lover and model , george dyer .
the edge of love seems to me a richer and more satisfying film .
if you ask what insights it offers into the springs of thomas 's creative inspiration , i would have to say llareggub .
but as an insight into his egotism , his smouldering moods and his general indifference to the feelings of others , it is wonderfully sad and revealing.thomas had a good war , boozing and writing while other men ( including killick ) were being traumatised by the horrors of battle .
in one scene near the end , thomas 's behaviour towards his friends seems unforgivably callous .
but this is not , after all , thomas 's film .
murphy gives us a magnificent study in doomed passion and the emotional debilitation of war .
miller is charming and pathetic as the wife .
and knightley looks almost too exquisitely delicate to be real ( as she did in pride and prejudice ) .
but this is probably her finest performance .
and in every respect the film is worthy of her .