dr stephens ( micheal harvey ) runs a mental asylum .
he has a different approach to the insane .
he conducts unorthodox methods of treatment .
he treats everyone like family , there are no locks on the patients doors and he lets some of the inmates act out their twisted fantasies .
he lets sergeant jaffee ( hugh feagin ) dress and act as a soldier and harriet ( camilla carr ) be a mother to a doll , including letting her put it to bed in a cot .
dr. stevens is outside letting judge oliver w. cameron ( gene ross ) chop a log up with an axe , it turns out to be a bad move as once dr. stevens back is turned the judge plants the axe in his shoulder .
soon after nurse charlotte beale ( rosie holotik ) arrives at the sanitarium having arranged an interview with dr. stevens about a possible job .
she is met by the head nurse , geraldine masters ( annabelle weenick as anne mcadams ) and is offered a trail position .
she gets to know and becomes well liked among the patients .
however things eventually start to turn sour , the phone lines are cut , an old lady named mrs. callingham ( rhea macadams ) has her tongue cut out and she starts to get a strange feeling that things just are n't right somehow .
then , one night all the sanitariums dark secrets are violently revealed .
produced and directed by s.f .
brownrigg this film has a great central idea which builds into a cool twist ending , but ultimately is a bit of a chore to sit through because of it 's low budget restrictions and a rather slow script by tim pope .
there are just too many long boring stretches of dialogue by the inmates , not a lot really happens until the final twenty odd minutes .
the film has no real visual quality as it 's set entirely in the sanitarium and it 's grounds which is basically just a big bland house in the middle of nowhere .
there 's no graphic gore in it , a few splashes of blood here and there and thats yer lot .
there 's a bit of nudity , but like the gore not much .
the acting is pretty strong , especially holotik and weenick .
the photography is flat and unexciting and i ca n't even remember what the music was like .
the twist ending is great , but it just takes far too long to get to it .
a film that had a lot of potential that was probably held back by it 's budget .
ok i guess , but i think it would have worked a lot better if the story had been turned into a half an hour 'tales form the crypt ' episode .