years ago , when darling lili played on tv , it was always the pan and scan version , which i hated and decided to wait and see the film in its proper widescreen format .
so when i saw an inexpensive dvd of this julie andrews/blake edwards opus , i decided to purchase and watch it once and for all.boy , what a terrible film .
it 's so bad and on so many levels that i really do not know where to start in describing where and when it goes so horribly wrong .
looking at it now , it 's obvious to any fans of movies that blake edwards created this star vehicle for his wife simply because so many other directors had struck gold with andrews in musicals ( mary poppins , sound of music , thoroughly modern millie , etc ) but also because andrews was snubbed from starring in projects made famous on stage by julie herself ( camelot , my fair lady , etc ) because hollywood thought she was n't sexy or glamorous enough .
so blake created this stillborn effort , to showcase his wife in a bizarre concoction of spy story/war movie/romance/slapstick comedy/musical .
darling lili suffers from multiple personalities , never knowing who or what it is .
some specific scenes are good or effective but as a whole , it just does n't work at all to a point of it being very embarrassing.mind you , the version on the dvd is the `` director 's cut '' , or in this case , `` let 's salvage whatever we can '' from this notorious box office flop .
in releasing the dvd , edwards cut 19 scenes ( 19 !
!
!
!
!
!
!
! )
from the original bloated theatrical version into this more streamlined and yet remarkably ineffective version .
the film moves along with no idea of what it is .
we are 25 minutes into it and we still do n't know what 's going on or why we 're watching what 's going .
what kind of spy is lili ?
how powerful is she ?
was she ever responsible for someone 's death ?
instead we watch a thoroughly bored looking rock hudson trying to woo a thoroughly bored looking julie andrews .
things are n't helped much with the inexplicable reason why the two fall in love .
why does julie fall for hudson ?
why him and not other men she got involved with ?
there should have been one of her ex hanging around , trying to win her back or trying to decipher her secret .
this would have given us some much needed contrast to the muddled action .
it would also have given us some impetuous to the sluggish proceedings .
there 's no catalyst in this story.one only has to look at the cut scenes to clearly see that edwards and the writer just came up with ideas inspired by andrews ' ( and edwards ' ) previous successes .
the best ( or worst ) example is the scene when andrews and hudson follows a group of children who sing in the middle of a forest .
edwards channeling sound of music .
it 's no wonder he removed it from the dvd .
back in 1970 , that scene might have worked on a certain level but today , that moment reeks of desperation .
there are other plot elements directly inspired by andrews/edwards other films .
the endless scenes of dogfights is inspired by the much better modern millie .
the musical moment `` i 'll give you three guesses '' was created just to make fun of julie 's mary poppins persona , which is turned `` raunchy '' with julie doing a striptease in the act .
the ending , bird 's eye view of julie running towards hudson 's plane , is another `` wink '' at sound of music.the whole thing is confusing .
julie plays a singer , born from a german father and british mother , who lives in england but sings her ( english ) songs in paris .
you never know exactly where the story takes place .
some moments are just badly edited .
like when julie and her `` uncle '' are on horseback .
they talk and talk and then julie suddenly sprints off in mid-sentence .
i 'm like `` what happened here ?
`` the comedy bits are unfunny and cringe-worthy .
every scene with the french police are pathetic .
where 's peter sellers when you really need him .
the action is stupid beyond belief .
when julie and her `` uncle '' are on their way to germany on that train , hudson 's squadron shoots rounds of bullets at the train , almost killing lili in the process .
brilliant .
what 's also funny about that scene is the two leave on the train in the middle of the night but hudson and his squadron reach the train even though they fly off the next morning .
that 's one slow moving train there .
the musical moments .
the beginning is the best part of the entire film ( and the reason i gave this film 3 stars ) but it 's effect is diminished considerably because it 's repeated at the end .
speaking of redundant , did we really need to see a can-can dance , crepe suzette stripping scene and julie stripping too ?
the `` girl in no man 's land '' is ok even if it 's bleeding obvious , but that moment just does n't make any sense whatsoever because lili sings it to a group of injured soldiers at a french hospital , making me wonder : how many soldiers there were injured indirectly by the result of her spying ?
the whole project is listless and without energy .
the romance is 100 % unbelievable .
rock hudson is way too old and tired looking ( check out the museum scene ) .
julie looks dazed , like she 's on valium .
but what really kills this ill-conceived project is julie playing a german spy .
edwards desperately wanted to dispel the mary poppins syndrome afflicting his wife and believed that playing a traitor was a good career decision .
as much as i like julie , she 's no greta garbo , who pulled it off so beautifully in mata hari .
funny enough , even if julie plays a german spy , she still comes across as cloying and cute.how bad is darling lili ?
even after 37 years since its release , blake edwards felt he still needed to work on it for its dvd release .