i saw the mogul video vhs of this .
that 's another one of those old 1980s distributors whose catalog i wish i had !
this movie was pretty poor .
though retitled `` do n't look in the attic , '' the main admonition that is repeated in this is `` do n't go to the villa . ''
just getting on the grounds of the villa is a bad idea .
a character does n't go into the attic until an hour into the movie , and actually should have done it earlier because of what is learned there.the movie starts in turin , italy in the 1950s .
two men are fighting , and a woman is telling them the villa is making them do it .
one man kills the other , then regrets it , and the woman pulls out the knife and stabs him with it .
she flees the villa , and after she 's left a chair moves by itself ( what 's the point of that ? )
, but when in the garden a hand comes up through the ground and drags he into the earth.from there , it 's the present day , thirty years later .
there 's a séance that appears suddenly and does n't appear to have anything to do with the movie .
the children of the woman from the prologue are inheriting the house .
the main daughter is played by the same actress who played her mother .
at least one of the two men from the prologue seems to reoccur as another character too .
she 's haunted by some warnings not to go to the villa , but they all do , since if they do not use it , they forfeit it .
people die .
a lawyer who has won all his cases tries to investigate a little .
the ending is pretty poor .
why was the family cursed ?
an unfortunately boring movie.there 's an amusing small-print disclaimer on the back of the video box that reads `` the scenes depicted on this packaging may be an artist 's impression and may not necessarily represent actual scenes from the film . ''
in this case , the cover of the box is an illustration that does more or less accurately depict the aforementioned woman dragged underground scene , although there are two hands , and the woman is different .
it 's true , sometimes the cover art has nothing to do with the movie .
i also recall seeing a reviewer who had a bad movie predictor scale , in which movies with illustrations on the cover instead of photos got at least one point for that .