breaking dawn starts in a californian college as professor simon ( associate producer joe morton ) tells his students that they have to perform an intensive six week study of a mental patient in cape state hospital as a crucial part of their education , fail & they will never become qualified doctors .
a bright , young , attractive & intelligent student named eve ( kelly overton ) is given a particularly difficult patient to study .
his name is don wake ( james haven ) & is a convicted killer , he was found covered in blood besides the dead body of a woman ( diane verona ) & her young daughter ( jenette mccurdy ) .
at first don wo n't even look at eve much less talk to her , but like the trooper she is eve persists in trying to figure him out .
eventually don begins to talk but what he says frightens eve , he says that someone is watching her & mentions the name malachay .
eve then begins to see a dark shadowy figure at her every turn , as don churns out the conspiracy theories & bizarre statements eve slowly begins to lose her mind as the line between fantasy & reality becomes more & more blurred .
is there something more to the supposed nonsense that don talks other than being the insane ravings of a psychiatric patient ... ?
written & directed by mark edwin robinson i have nothing but negative feelings towards breaking dawn .
now , we all like a good twist ending , the sort of ending which catches us unawares , surprises us , works well with the rest of the film & stays in our memory like the cool twist endings to the sixth sense ( 1999 ) & fight club ( 1999 ) to name just two good examples & to a lesser extent the endings to films such as scream ( 1996 ) where the identity of the killer comes a nice surprise & is n't that obvious .
then , of course , there are films whose endings spoil everything that has gone before & as an example lets take , oh i do n't know lets say breaking dawn because i have never seen such an awful ending to a film , never .
breaking dawn starts out as a decent psychological horror thriller with spooky things starting to happen to eve , it 's not the most action packed film ever by any stretch of the imagination but it holds ones interest , it 's not the most absorbing film ever either but it is more than watchable & it 's not that bad a film until the twist ending , i have to keep mentioning it because everything else up to that point ( which was ok to be fair to it ) suddenly becomes irrelevant .
i am sure there are people out there who think they have this muddled mess of an ending figured out down to the last detail , all i can say is that no one will be able to explain this thing in a satisfactory way to me & as far as i 'm concerned it does n't make a bit of sense & never will .
breaking dawn is crap & it 's a waste of time watching it to be rewarded with the lamest ending in film history , it 's as simple & straight forward as that.director robinson does n't half make a mess of what could have been a decent thriller , maybe he thought what he had shot would play out ok or maybe it was ruined in the editing room but i 'd imagine it was more likely down to a rubbish script as he tries to tie all the absurdities together within the space of a few muddled minutes & give us all a happier than happy final shot .
he builds the tension quite well during the first 80 odd minutes but it 's all for nought at the end of the day.technically breaking dawn is fine & it is generally well made throughout .
the acting is pretty good , overton is nice & easy on the eyes & puts in a decent performance .
was it just me or did the guy who played don look like john morghen star of such italian sleaze classics as cannibal apocalypse ( 1980 ) , city of the living dead ( 1980 ) , the house on the edge of the park ( 1980 ) , cannibal ferox ( 1981 ) , stagefright ( 1987 ) & the church ( 1989 ) ?
ok , maybe it was just me ... breaking dawn is rubbish , i hated it all because of the final few minutes .
do n't get me wrong it was n't exactly getting me excited up to that point but it was ok. definitely one to avoid as far as i 'm concerned although it seems to have it 's fair share of positive comments on the imdb ...