i suppose i can see why critics give this film two out five stars , it is n't fantastic , but i think it is worth a look , from director shawn levy ( cheaper by the dozen , night at the museum ) .
basically 14-year-old jason shepherd ( malcolm in the middle 's frankie muniz ) is often lying to his parents and teachers , and his teacher warns him that if he does n't do his creative writing , he will fail his whole semester and have to repeat the grade during summer .
so he completes his work , but getting a lift from hollywood producer marty wolf ( paul giamatti ) , who hit him on the way to school , he manages to leave his paper with the story `` big fat liar '' in the car .
he finds out from a movie trailer that marty stole his paper and is turning it into a major movie , so he and his best friend kaylee ( she 's the man 's amanda bynes ) are on a mission to prove jason is for once telling the truth .
marty of course is too nasty and smug to give jason 's father harry ( michael bryan french ) a phone call , and he evens burns the `` big fat liar '' paper .
so now jason and kaylee are determined to make marty 's life as hellish as possible , until he agrees to call jason 's dad .
they put blue dye in his swimming pool , and orange hair dye in his shampoo , and much more naughty pranks creating chaos for marty 's career .
there is the obvious point when jason looks like he wants to give up , but do n't worry , all characters that despise marty help out in the final operation , and with jason 's parents coming , he wants to finally prove his truthfulness , and boy does he deliver , big style .
also starring amanda detmer as monty kirkham , lee majors as vince , donald adeosun faison as frank jackson , sandra oh as mrs. phyllis caldwell , russell hornsby as marcus duncan , christine tucci as carol shepherd and american pie 's john cho as dustin 'dusty ' wong .
muniz is likable , byrnes proves a very surprisingly talented support , and even though he is wasting his time and talent a little , giamatti is great at being nasty .
it is a kids film , so if it seems corny , cheesy or predictable , just keep that in mind , and try to enjoy the performances and slapstick .
okay !