jack bender 's `` the tempest '' is an adaption of shakespeare 's play `` the tempest '' .
bender transports the plot from medieval italy to mississippi during the time of the american civil war .
he includes the slavery problem and the role of revenge in wartimes.prospero , re-named gideon prosper is not the duke of milan but a landowner in mississippi .
he learns voodoo magic from the female slave mambo azaleigh .
he saves her son ariel , who thus accompanies him into his exile .
the island is not situated on the sea but in a swamp near the banks of the mississippi .
there lives an alligator hunter , a so-called `` gator-man '' , who later tries to rape prospero 's daughter miranda .
during the time of the civil war , ariel wants to join the union troops to help fighting against slavery .
prospero does not care about the war .
he is only interested in his personal revenge on his brother antony .
when antony and his bookkeeper willi gonzo ( gonzalo ) try to cross the river , prospero raises a storm .
the union soldier frederick gets lost in the swamp and finally comes to the island .
he and miranda fall in love with each other but prospero wo n't accept that .
meanwhile , ariel transformed into a raven by prospero , finds out that antony has feigned to ally with the union but plans to betray them .
antony and gonzo meet gator man in the swamp and conspire with him against prospero .
they kidnap miranda and ariel but prospero freeze them and helps the union defeat the southern army .
in the end ariel is free , frederick and miranda are bound to marry , prospero returns to the plantation and gator man gets back the island.peter fonda represents gideon prosper powerfully and convincingly while the character of antony stays rather flat .
it was no bad idea to perform the tempest before the background of the civil war but perhaps the director has risked too much .
in some parts the story seems constructed or comical .
gator man for example does just appear without any explanation .
that it needs a kidnapping to bring prospero to his mind and that he loses confidence in his power shows that bender tried to make prospero more human but only made him a weak old man without his magic .
prospero 's original authority and wisdom is not made clear.
-- -- -- -- -- -- -end of part 1 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --