few movies have dashed expectations and upset me as much as fire has .
the movie is pretentious garbage .
it does not achieve anything at an artistic level .
the only thing it managed to receive is a ban in india .
if only it was because of the poor quality of film making rather than the topical controversy , the ban would have been more justifiable.now that i 've got my distress out of my system , i am more able to analyse the movie : * from the onset the movie feels unreal especially when the protagonists start conversing in english .
the director , of course , did not make the movie for an indian audience ; however it underestimated its international audiences by over simplifying it .
watching the character of the domestic help conversing in perfect english is too unreal to be true .
* next we get regular glimpses into radha 's dreams .
these scenes are not very effective .
they coming up as jarring and obstruct the flow of the movie .
i 'm still wondering how that philosophical dialogue connected to the story .
i felt that the surrealism was lost .
* the love scenes felt voyeuristic and are probably meant for audience titillation rather than being a powerful statement .
in any case , they do not achieve either of the two .
* the names chosen for the women , radha and sita , are names of hindu deities and hence been selected to shock the audiences .
however , since the film was n't meant for indian audiences in the first place , the shock-through-name-selection is not meant to achieve its goal , which is absurd .
* the quality of direction is very poor and some key and delicate scenes have been poorly handled .
a better director could have made a powerful emotional drama out of the subject .
* the acting felt wooden although nandita das brought some life into the role , the others were wasted .
i always thought that shabana azmi was a good actress but her talent is not evident in this film .
the male leads were outright rubbish.in case you are a fan of earth and wish to see more of the director , stay away from this one .
please .