this movie is so dull i spent half of it on imdb while it was open in another tab on netflix trying to find out if anyone thought it was one of the more boring , ponderous , gimmicky films they 've ever seen .
a warning : i actually could not finish it , so these are my impressions up to minute 54.keira knightly gets loads of screen time .
as others have mentioned , her mother penned the script ( perhaps during some sort of drug-induced stupor wherein utter inanities and emotionless statements about emotions sounded like interesting dialogue ) and it seems that the film is a showcase for knightly .
oops !
although i agree she is lovely ( with her teeth unexposed ... her barred teeth cause me anxiety and fear ) i found her reactions forced and poorly timed .
as in , william or dylan does something cute ... pause ... hahaha from k with dimples and a playful arm jab .
like a minute too late .
what ?
and she can not match cillian murphy 's intensity .
he somehow manages to really look at her and look as though he is fascinated by her and falling in love with her whereas she seems totally disconnected , almost like she is interacting with a mirror .
that must be torture , acting opposite someone who is n't delivering the same level of energy as you .
know what else is torture ?
this movie.knightly does look stunning during her cyclical `` i 've got 1940s pin curls and a hot dress .
watch me sing ! ''
shots , but what 's the point ?
is she an altar or an actress ?
when she talks it 's bizarre , `` ooow , mehster deelan .
whur eer ya going ? ''
this makes me confused because the accent is so mixed up and unauthentic , yet so thick at times i have no idea what she 's saying ( or maybe fell asleep ) .
if no one knows who vera was or cares , or few do , was it so important to give her this supposed welsh accent ?
it distracts from all the rest of the action ( just kidding there ) .this movie seems like someone dreamed a movie , maybe after reading a little dylan thomas before bed .
but instead of adapting to the waking world was like , `` man , that dream was so interesting '' and tried to replicate it .
then someone else cautioned , `` your script needs work .
nothing that happens furthers a story or creates necessity '' and the writer is all , `` but that 's the way i dreamed it ! ''
it 's like the rambling fantasy of a child , one of those wild and meandering yarns they spin to get your attention .
and then william went to a war and then vera had a baby and then some blond chick drank too much and there were so many airplanes and pin curls and everyone had ruby red lips and ... as for the dylan thomas character ( so bland that 's all i can call him ) , why did n't he have any lines in this goofy biopic ?
all he does is drink beer and smoke cigarettes and roll around with sienna miller , who is so wild and artistic she 'll do a cartwheel in public !
get outta here , you crazy poets !
( i realize she is not a poet , but she and thomas are like this one nauseating unit of crazy guys havin crazy times , like a lukewarm sailor and lula from wild at heart . )
someone asks in the message board if they should buy this film .
i say do it .
leave it on your shelf and only utilize it as a weapon to narcotize children , the elderly , or lingering house guests.p.s .
to murphy 's character ... when someone asks if you were `` in the sh** '' you can say yes , because your war scenes appear to have been shot at a landfill .