this is one of the most awful movies i 've ever seen , probably only surpassed by the dreadful and utterly meaningless blueberry .
how can harald zwart even have put his name on this crap .
i 'm feeling every ounce of respect i had for him waning fast.so what is it about this film that makes it so poor ?
is it the story ?
yes .
is it the actors ?
yes .
it it the whole `` look and feel '' of the movie ?
yes.to start off with the story , my god !
it 's about as cliché-ridden and predictable as what you would expect from a drunk 14-year old who is late writing his/her paper on `` what i did this summer '' .
the feel-good vibe the makers try to achieve just completely drown as we suffer through yet another embarrassing turn to the story.the actors are amateurs , i know , and thus we can not expect them to be of the same quality as professional actors .
but for this to work , the characters have to be charming and/or funny ( preferably both ) , so that the viewers do n't mind the cheeky acting , or perhaps it even adds to the characters .
in this case , not even close baby !
you start off disliking the characters mildly , and by the end of the film ( i think it 's about 90 minutes long , although it feels like 4 hours ) you have a strong desire to hurt somebody to get your mind of these annoying stupid guys !
it should be impossible to find this movie 's attempt at humor successful unless you 're actually yourself like these stupid hickeys .
their before mentioned lack of talent and credibility as far as acting goes , only makes the foolish and overly simple scenes fall harder to the ground .
even the family of the people involved will have a hard time finding this anything but very , very embarrassing ( i 'd rather have my sister make a fool of herself on american idol ) .finally , why cram in a bunch of misplaced norwegian celebrities ?
they look even more out of place than the actors , if this is possible .
these celebrity cameos just add to the cheap feeling of the film and is in itself a pretty see-through shot in the dark at trying to improve something broken even before inception.i can not even begin to stress how much i 'd rather watch paint dry than ever watch this movie again ...