bloody birthday opens to a shot of meadowvale general hospital .
there three babies are being born at precisely the same time during a total eclipse .
a caption informs us that it is now 'meadowvale , california june 1 , 1980 ' .
two teenage lovers , duke benson ( ben marley ) and annie smith ( erica hope ) are getting down to business in an open grave .
they hear noises and duke investigates .
both duke and annie are murdered .
sheriff jim brody ( bert kramer ) is baffled and only has the handle of a child 's skipping rope that annie was holding , as a clue .
unfortunately before sheriff brody can solve the case his youngest daughter debbie ( elizabeth hoy ) and two of her friends curtis taylor ( billy jayne as billy jacoby ) and steven seton ( andy freeman ) murder him .
just as they are finishing sheriff brody off another young boy from their class named timmy russel ( k.c .
martel ) turns up , the three killers are unaware of how much he saw .
soon after the incident timmy plays with steven and curtis in a junkyard .
curtis locks timmy into an old locker .
timmy manages to escape and tell his sister joyce ( lori lethin ) , but she does n't believe him at first .
the three children carry on their murder spree .
their strict teacher miss davis ( susan strasberg ) a lovemaking couple ( john avery and sylvia wright ) in a van and debbie 's older sister beverly ( julie brown ) are among their victims .
joyce begins to have her suspicions about debbie , curtis and steven which makes her and timmy a target for the evil trio .
will they be able to convince the authorities that these three innocent looking 10 year olds are really soulless killers ?
co-written and directed by ed hunt i have an intense dislike for this film .
i think it 's absolutely awful and does n't have a single enjoyable aspect to it 's 83 minute running time .
the script by hunt and barry pearson gives us no explanation for the child killers motives beyond the solar eclipse that blocks out saturn and therefore for some bizarre astrological reason these three children do n't have any conscience , so these are the only children ever born during a total eclipse ?
if that is true why do they wait until just before their tenth birthday 's before starting their killing spree ?
i guess it just suddenly kicks in , right ?
to it 's credit it is reasonably well paced but i still found it incredibly boring and tedious to sit through .
the film as a whole is very unexciting and predictable , the children are revealed as the killers within the first 10 minutes and as i 've mentioned next to no motive is given .
it 's very silly at times , too .
check out the scene where debbie stops steven by throwing a bowl of water over him !
the sheriff 's death is put down to him falling down some steps , yeah right the injuries suffered from that type of accident are n't going to be the same as if your beaten to death with a baseball bat like he was in reality , any competent doctor or pathologist would have spotted that within 5 seconds .
there is n't a single drop of blood spilt in the entire film and all of the lame killings are dull and unimaginative .
there is some out-of-place looking nudity as debbie charges 25c to let boys peek through a hole while her sister beverly strips .
there is an early scene just after the 5 minute mark when joyce walks from the kitchen to the living room and the boom mike is clearly visible at the top of the screen , not even a little bit of it the whole damn thing .
the general incompetence continues throughout the film .
the whole production is bland and instantly forgettable .
the acting is poor throughout , those three kids are very annoying and got on my nerves right from the start and made sitting through this film even more of a chore , especially curtis in his geeky over-sized glasses .
i just hate this film really , simple as that .
i ca n't think of a single good thing to say about it .
definitely one to avoid .