i was a hippie age 22 in 1965 , have seen the play 5 times , have 2 versions of the music , and have read the script many times .
maybe taken as an separate thing , the movie is ok , but as an adoption of the play , it 's terrible.first the good .
the songs are sung well , and the production values are pretty good .
the homosexual implications in black boys , white boys is cute .
the claude/berger switch was interesting .
hair is a fluid production , and constant changes in it are inherent provided the basic spirit of it is retained.but the basic spirit was very much distorted .
it seemed like all the producer wanted was to sing certain songs , and fit the story-line to them regardless of what that did to the original intent of the play.claude , sheila , and hud were presented as a selfish brats who could care less about anyone outside their tribe .
claude destroyed sheila 's parents party ( it 's hard to believe that she smiled while her parents were being hurt ) , and repeatedly stole cars .
sheila stole the soldier 's clothes and car .
then she left him in the middle of the desert where he would certainly sunburn badly , probably be busted in rank , and could likely die on that lonely nevada road .
good fun .
and hud found it fine to break his son 's heart while yelling at his ex .
this is not what hippies were like , not what the play described , and is directly opposite to a love generation.i 've never seen a hippie beg for money .
the point was to be self-sufficient outside the capitalist system , not beg from it.after berger is thrown in jail for ruining sheila 's party and claude offers to bail some out , berger insists on being bailed instead , with no better plan for bailing the rest that hitting on sheila 's parents , and then hitting on his own mommy .
`` be in '' has always been a very spiritual point , but here it is wasted on silly brides floating around .
even if this is part of his trip , it ruins a beautiful song .
i know they 're contrasting `` floating in space '' with the army .
but again , it totally ruins a beautiful song.while sheila and claude are skinny dipping , berger steals their clothes , laughing `` it was fun man '' even after he could see both were very annoyed .
then a little later , berger does one thing that no hippie ever does .
he hits claude .
terrible.then they have the perfect opportunity to sing `` starshine '' at night in some beautiful sf spot with the stars twinkling down , maybe working into an inventive duet .
instead , the whole tribe sings it in the blazing sun speeding down the road in a convertible ( stolen of course ) .i was vastly disappointed with the movie in 1979 , and i like it even less now .
i think it would have been possible to do a reasonably close adoption of the show , but this ai n't it .