a new guard in in the armored truck gig is recruited by his co-workers to steal 42 million from the truck .
no bad guys , so no one will get hurt , right ?
of course things go wrong and the new guard decides to have a conscience and make things right by saving the life of a dying man.i 'll admit that i did n't really have any interest in this film , but i did n't have any interest in fantastic mr fox either , and that film made my top ten of the year .
armored is even more of a disappointment then i thought it would be .
as a heist film , it fails to deliver the goods , it 's boring and full of plot holes and leaps in logic that one will hurt themselves thinking about it.despite this the film somehow has a really great cast , but the film does n't even use this to it 's advantage .
everyone seems wasted in wooden characters that make stupid choices .
columbus short is an uninteresting lead that is never charismatic and never makes the audience want to give a crap .
matt dillon is the mastermind behind the heist and he plays mr. nice guy at first , then when things do n't go his way he quickly becomes the villain .
the rest of the impressive cast include lawrence fisburn , jean reno , skeet ulrich , fred ward , amaury nolasco from prison break and milo ventimiglia from heros .
non of them do much and when they actually do something , it 's without much reasoning behind it.the film is relatively short , but even with it 's running time under 90 minutes , it felt dragged out .
how long can you make a movie about a guy trapped somewhere ?
phonebooth did a decent job and it was even more restricted .
the leaps of logic concerning the plot here are tragic .
42 million and all the security they have are check ins every hour or so ?
the entire plan from my understanding was to drive the trucks into an abandoned warehouse and hide the money .
pretend to get hit and burn the trucks .
they would then walk away with the money .
of course something goes wrong , or there would be no movie right ?
through a series of unfortunate events out so called hero has trapped himself inside the truck with an injured officer .
the rest of the movie is dillion and his crew banging on the doors to get in .
how very exciting.the script calls for our hero to have financial problems , he might lose his house , which would in turn make him lose his brother .
you see , both their parents died and it 's just the two of them looking out for each other .
so now he has a reason to join the heist .
at first he did n't want in , but his money problems is just the right push to throw him in the thick of things .
how convenient .
armored 's whole spin on the heist genre is that it 's from an armored truck , from the guys who drive it .
after that basic premise , the film falls flat on it 's face .
i found myself wanting it to end sooner and sooner each time someone spoke .
speaking of the ending , it sucks .
skip it .