at the heart of almost every truly great crime thriller is a carefully considered , methodically planned-out high stakes super-crime , which 9 times out of 10 is committed by a bunch of likable , grey-scale morality underdogs for who life is n't fair , for whom getting back at the man is , well , something worth cheering for .
first-time screenwriter james v. simpson 's script for armored gets this half right .
he made extra-double-sure that we 've got nothing but sympathy for the recently orphaned , iraq war veteran ty hackett ( stomp the yard 's columbus short ) , who 's about to have his house taken away by an evil bank ( brother , i 've been there ) .
and he gave ty a good family friend in mike ( matt dillon ) who is super nice and gets him a job at the armored car company that he works at with baines ( lawrence fishbourne ) and some weird french dude ( jean reno ) .
these guys like to have fun and play pranks , but they are also serious armored car guys too , so that means they carry guns and are tough.after a short while , as one theoretically watches armored , one might start to think as i did , that maybe - just maybe - this is going to be some kind of awesome , tongue-in-cheek , cornball heist movie with some on-the-nose characterizations that move the story along its natural course , cranking up the personal stakes of all involved in hopes of unveiling a really , really clever plan with lots of potential 'holy sh*t ' moments .
i mean , the music alone is textbook heist-movie - gritty , edgy beats working overtime as we 're treated to close-ups of characters who say things like `` as a matter of fact i do , '' and `` are you crazy ?
? ''
for 45 minutes or so , the movie had some serious genre-flick potential.then things start to really stink .
these dudes , these idiots , have no plan .
there 's no `` ok , here 's what we 're gon na do ... '' scene , no blueprints , no explosives , no black van or ski-masks ( despite their 'test-run ' , as can be seen in a trailer ) .
no , these guys are going to steal $ 42 million dollars from their own trucks ( which are only being tracked by hourly contact over the radio , despite being equipped with some fancy , big-deal 'gps technology ' ) , and they are n't even going to sit down and discuss it .
hell , mike only tells ty about the plan the night before , which is completely ridiculous .
but of course , ty 's got his house to think about so as long as mike promises that 'no one will get hurt , ' he 's on board .
guess what , though .
somebody gets hurt .
why ?
because , besides driving the trucks into an abandoned factory to hide the money , they have no plan .
that was it .
that was how far they thought things out .
so , naturally , things start to unravel .
these cats deserve everything they get for being so unprepared.this script , frankly , feels like it 's like the product of some bad improv game : `` armored car , robbed by its own guards ... go ! ''
despite some half-decent buildup that could have maybe taken the film in a few interesting directions , the story just completely falls apart , and pretty soon , nothing makes sense , or is even remotely plausible.when filmmakers do n't have a cool `` hook '' for their heist , their characters seem stupid , and bungling .
and when characters are stupid , and bungling , it 's hard for an audience to invest in them , and their story .
and when that happens , any suspense drains out the bottom of the movie , leaving a laughable , hollow husk.skip it .
3/10