2/3 of this movie is recycled footage of the previous movies , a fact that 's sadly obvious even to someone like myself who has n't seen the original movies .
and somehow it feels like a rip-off even though i have n't seen the stuff before .
it 's like that episode of every tv show where the characters sit around a photo album or something and you just see recycled footage of other episodes .
i 've seen some producers do extended montages of recycled footage , but never anything beyond 5 minutes or so .
this movie is mostly stuff that had already been seen by audiences , so you could mount a case that it 's one of the biggest rip-offs ever foisted on the motion picture public.i got to see it in the theater , in a 16mm print , which is good enough i suppose considering how rare this kind of material must be on film these days .
i give the movie some credit for semi-convincing gothic atmosphere and for unintentional humor , but that 's about it .
the aztec mummy monster looks good , even has some mobility in his face which is better than most movie monsters of the period .
but the robot is pitiful , although it 's interesting that they made the human face totally visible .
it 's a `` robot human '' or something of the sort as they somewhat explain in the movie .
i think that 's considered an android .
so technically in hard sci-fi terms this movie should be called `` android vs. the aztec mummy '' , but i doubt anyone was too worried about technicalities here anymore than they were worried about quality .
in fact the movie is so sloppily put together that it makes television look good .
even the dubbing from mexican into english is lazy and weak -- for example at one point the hero says `` i might as well begin at the beginning ... . ''
what the heck kind of translation is that ?
could n't they at least have him say `` start at the beginning '' so that it does n't sound repetitive ?
a high school newspaper editor could have fixed the screenplay of this movie .
it 's the epitome of utilitarian film-making , just absolutely nothing is in this movie that does n't need to be there for the basic commercial purpose of the film .
they put no more effort into making it than they had to , and considering the extensive recycled footage i would doubt that they actually spent more than a week making this movie.i will now cease posting about it on the principle that i do n't want to expend more energy in the process of commenting than the creators of the movie actually expended while making it .