i have watched this movie twice in the past six months ( what i go through so you do n't have to ) .the first viewing left me half crazed and babbling.the second viewing at 5am on a rainy morn was a little better.i only screamed in agony once .
seems pocona ( the aztec mummy ) had the hots for a certain aztec princess who was '' supposed to keep her maiden '' .obviously they gave each other the business and were put to death for it .
( now that is severe ! )
.but before they are the film tries to put us to death with a screeching aztec ceremony.the singing will make your ears bleed .
anyhow there is the usual reincarnation nonsense .
not to mention a treasure map on a breastplate & bracelet guarded by that swathed slob , pocona.by this time pocona looks like he 's been on a 2000 year bender and is after the defilers of his tomb.his groans & moans sounds like he has a bad case of montezuma 's revenge ( or he read the script for this movie ) .that will make your breath stink .
an evil dr von krupp appears wanting the aztec treasure ( possibly to finance acting lessons & screenwriting classes for cast & crew ) .he is called the bat because in the curse of the aztec mummy he wore a bat like cape , hat and something like a ski mask over his face.guess it 's better than the laughing fat man .
the bat in typical mad scientist fashion wants to rule the world .
he stresses this by rolling his eyes , laughing maniacally and chewing the scenery.he has cobbled together an invincible robot.looks like the 'bot was made from a garbage can , a chandelier and the grill of a 1957 buick.this will make your eyes bleed.a company even takes credit for making this tin can !
well the mighty showdown between pocona and the robot takes place in the mummy 's new crypt having been made homeless earlier .
about half of this movie is culled from `` la aztec momia '' never released in the us in its original form but in a chopped atrocity from jerry warren ( see my review on `` attack of the mayan mummy '' ) and `` curse of the aztec mummy '' .the robot is frankly stupid as are most of the characters.if that and the plot does n't make you howl with laughter nothing will .
my first impression was so bad it would have gotten a one .
but after seeing `` mayan mummy '' ( which is a movie deserving of being burned ) and watching `` robot '' again , it garners a 3.you have to watch this with no expectations at all .
then it can be naively pleasant .