in 1932 , humphrey bogart was a relative unknown -- an unproven actor who was starring in one of his first films .
and , because he was an unknown , the movie they gave him was clearly a b-movie -- a quick film with relatively low expectations .
after seeing it , i could see why it would still take bogart many more years and another film studio before he became a household name .
while the film is n't terrible , it certainly is n't good -- making it more of a curiosity than anything else when seen today.bogart is a pilot who has dreams of building his own aircraft engine company .
however , when a vacuous rich playgirl comes his way , his dreams all seem to go on hold .
as one of the characters in the film said , the combination of the two is like oil and water -- they just do n't mix.while bogart is throwing away his promising career , his sister is going full speed on the road to skankville -- having met a sleazy guy who convinces her to sleep with rich guys so they can shake them down for tons of cash !
bogey has no idea his sister is n't the actress she claims to be and does n't realize later that the rich woman he loves leaves him for the same guy whose mistress is ... .bogart 's sister !
!
!
all this leads up to a finale that is reasonably enjoyable .
however , what follows is one of the dumbest scenes i have watched in a very long time !
by now , the rich lady is not going to marry the guy sleeping with bogey 's sister ( whew ! )
but because she 's now poor and no good for bogart , she 's about to fly away and kill herself .
bogey finds out , chases the plane on foot , jumps on the plane as it 's taking off and crawls up the fuselage to take control of the plane and save her !
!
!
this is so utterly silly and ridiculous , i found myself laughing out loud .
up until then , i might have scored it a 4 or 5 -- this sunk the movie to a 3 ( how one reviewer gave this an 8 is beyond me ) .the bottom line is that this was a talking and silly film .
on top of that , it 's all wrong for bogart , as the action hero at the end and the simpering lover are horrible matches for his persona that was so wonderfully created in the early 40s .
manly and solid better suits the man -- one of america 's great actors but clearly out of his element here.by the way , those who love pre-code films and their very adult sensibilities may want to see this one .
practically everyone in the film believes in and practices pre-marital sex and bogey curses in the film -- things you never would have seen after the toughened and more moralistic production code was adopted in 1934 .