where should i begin with this movie .
all i know is that it is a mess .
be the script , story , or the actors .
first of all , this movie is very disappointing from salman khan who gave us a fun dulhan hum le jayenge and har dil jo pyar karega before this .
second rani is getting really annoying , appearing in every stupid movie since kuch kuch hota hai ( glad saathiya stopped this nonsense ) .
the story is stolen from the wedding singer , but ruins the funny movie .
the dialogues are lacking .
i may have laughed here and there , but entertained ?
no !
!
!
salman khan was tolerable in the above mentioned movies , but here he is insane .
his character is poorly written .
one minute he is poor and next minute you wonder how is he poor .
rani mukherjee looks like a plain jain and was n't putting any effort .
she luckily redeemed her career with saathiya because her career was going haywire around this time .
pooja batra put a little charm here with her looks but it is still not enough .
jackie shroff is wasted .
kashmira shah 's beauty and acting has ran away from her because she chose such a horrible script .
raveena tandon looks beautiful , but puts little performance .
mohnish behl gets the award for worst ( supporting ) actor ( they need razzie 's because there have been terrible movies in india ) .
he says stupid dialogues , dances terribly , looks weird , and is not in his regular form .
just to tell you , there is more to the cast who are also terrible .
if it were n't for raveena 's awesome beauty in aa meri life bana de , i would n't give the movie a point .
otherwise the dancing by salman was terrible .
pooja batra was dancing like a wind in savariya , otherwise i wish the costumes were given a make-over and the rest of the cast ( and their monkey dancing ) had been blown away from the wind .
the good song of the album was o priya o priya which does n't have a good enough picturization .
same goes for the half way decent title song .
otherwise this movie ( and the rest of the songs ) are a no-no for everyone .