i was watching this movie and getting increasingly bored with the silly plot that was going nowhere , when suddenly , the story takes a surreal turn for the worse and has an actor playing herself .
oh how i guffawed .
because it 's sooooo funny , is n't it ?
we know julia roberts is playing the character of tess , and here they are , in the film , cracking the joke that the character of tess looks a bit like julia roberts .
so julia plays someone impersonating julia .
how well she does this , we 'll never know , because 99.999 % of the audience do n't actually know julia roberts personally ( and reading about her in hello magazine does n't count ) .
and then bruce willis turns up !
apparently , he 's julia roberts ' best friend .
well , he is in the film ... how would i know whether or not bruce willis and julia roberts even know each other ?
i 'm not in the least bit interested in the personal lives of actors - i just pay my money and expect them to do the job they 're paid to do .
anyway they start cracking jokes about the plot twist in the film where willis ( rather unconvincingly ) plays a psychiatrist ... the one with the little kid in it ... you know the one ?
i do n't , i 've forgotten what it 's called .
willis even drops in a comment about how well that film did at the box office - how modest of you mr willis !
the problem is that , not only are these scenes pointless and horribly horribly self-indulgent , it also remind us , the viewers , that we 're simply watching a bunch of actors strutting around and getting paid vast sums of money for very little effort .
you see , when i see a movie , i want to suspend disbelief and forget that i 'm watching actors - i want to believe in the story i 'm watching .
when you start pulling the scenery down , mid- movie , you simply ruin the illusion for me.you know that a tv series has jumped the shark when it starts introducing celebrities , playing themselves ( stand up and be counted the simpsons , friends , etc . )
, but this is the first time i 've seen a movie jump the shark .
i usually stay away from movies like that ( e.g .
scary movie , the naked gun , etc. )
.
the trouble is , i honestly never thought the ocean 's 11 films would go in this direction .
what a shame.so with suspension of disbelief thrown out the window , and the plot now languishing in the movie then cracks the most wicked joke of all on the audience - the heist actually happened way back in the story , and the final 90 minutes or so of the film was pointless posturing .
yes , that 's right : steven soderwhatsit and his actor friends all get up , point at us the audience and say , `` ha haaa ... you 've all been had ... thanks for your money ! ''
.
then they give us the single fingered salute.well , right back at you .
i did n't actually pay to see this movie ... i downloaded the dvd for nothing .
how d'ya like them apples ?
now that 's a plot twist .