terry benedict ( andy garcia ) catches up with danny ocean and his team and demands that they repay the money that they stole from him ( in oceans 11 ) plus interest .
he holds back from violent action however as he is under the instruction of the world 's greatest thief , the night fox .
the team then have to pull off a series of heists to pay benedict back whilst testing their abilities against the night fox who wishes to maintain his position as the greatest thief ever .
put simply , this film is a complete mess .
the masses may argue that it is `` cool '' and that clooney and pitt put in great performances but these are the same people who have a subscription to `` hello '' magazine and think that david beckham has the potential to be a great actor .
the story is convoluted , it is not complex or clever and it does not have intelligent twists and turns , it is just a complete mess that spills out in multiple directions with the hope that the audience will think it is cool and intelligent ( hello magazine readers ) .
any respectable movie watcher will however see the film for the farce that it is .
whilst oceans 11 was n't a great film it had a decent pace , was stylish and had some decent twists and turns .
this movie loses its way very quickly and then basically gives up .
it is as if the director and cast said to themselves , hey this is n't really working out , lets just have a laugh !
indeed the cast looks like they are enjoying themselves but i was not .
i will not delve into the plot as its confused evolution does not warrant any examination .
the addition of catherine zeta jones is largely annoying .
the scenes where julia roberts impersonates herself ( with bruce willis undertaking a cameo role ) whilst mildly amusing appear to be a desperate move to keep the audience interested .
the movie is so full of plot holes that it as if arnie has emptied an uzi 9mm into the film studio .
credit can only be given to some scenes where the night fox uses caopeira to undertake a heist against the back drop of some funky music but this is hardly justification to watch the movie .
the final scene features the team in a nonsensical drunken stupor ; this accurately sums up the movie .
stick with the original .