spoiler !
!
terrible camera work , horrible writing , non-existent plot , and numerous plot wholes .
wonderful acting !
except for julia roberts .
who poorly plays someone who is impersonating julia roberts , poorly .
catherine zeta jones is adorable in this movie.during the movie , we repeatedly zoom in , on each of the twelve ( ! )
characters .
twelve is too many , even for a classic like 12 angry men .
and the problem is , we tediously zoom in on the characters , when all of them are in the same room , doing the same thing.yep , clooney 's eating .
yep , pitt 's eating .
yep , the `` jew '' is eating .
yep , the geek is eating .
yep , the bodybuilder 's eating .
yep , mr. sensitive is eating .
yep .
yep .
yep .
yep -- yep .
yep .
phew !
this happens at least three other times in the movie .
yep , they 're all sitting in cars , bored .
yep , they 're all getting arrested , frightened .
yep , they 're all being led out of a jail , depressed.but it was n't until i was home that i realized how badly they 'd `` got '' me on this one .
this is a heist movie , right ?
that 's what i went to see , right ?
but when i walked in and set my car keys in the change jar , only then i realized : nothing was actually stolen in this movie !
that 's right .
it 's a heist movie , where nothing gets stolen .
oh , they try .
they go to try and steal some boring document or something , from some guy 's house ( whatever ) , and it turns out it 's already been stolen .
20 minutes of my life , wasted .
then they try to steal some egg from some museum ( yawn ! )
, and they screw that up and get arrested.then we see how some fairy french guy stole the egg even before they did , and we get all the joy of `` entrapment '' , except this time the person inside the tight catsuit dancing around the fake lasers is ... an ugly skinny french guy .
um.but it turns out he did n't actually steal the egg either .
actually , our heroes stole the egg , loooong ago , in another movie entirely , which would have been a great movie to watch , had they made that movie.instead we see a 30 second clip in black-and-white about how they robbed some college student of his back-pack .
you heard me ... the daring caper , the ultimate heist -- the buildup of this 2 and a half hours of utter boring crap -- is them stealing a back-pack from a college student , by creatively getting into a fight over baseball teams and distracting him , and replacing his back-pack with an identical back-pack ?
what ?
?
ugh .
i 'm telling you , this was so bad , i did n't even realize just how bad it was -- just how badly i 'd been robbed -- until i got home .