every james bond movie has its own set of rules .
just like every indiana jones movie has its own set of rules .
and the fact that screenwriters do n't break these rules maintains the integrity of the characters .
with a completely unnecessary plot twist , the integrity of both ocean films plummets somewhere between airplane 2 and a roadrunner cartoon.imagine what would happen , while teetering on the rope bridge outside of the temple of doom , if indy told shorty and willie not to worry because throughout the entire first two movies he 's secretly had super powers and can fly them both to safety.entertaining ?
sure , for a roadrunner cartoon .
but spielberg would never have done that because it would have destroyed the integrity of the film .
more importantly , it would have angered the audience .
they 'd already sat on the edge of their seats through 3 hours worth of indiana jones movies and they were counting on indiana to get them off that bridge in a believable way .
if he were to fly off ?
people would have walked out of the theaters the same way people did during ocean 's 12.spoilers1 .
julia roberts'character , tess , infiltrates a museum by disguising herself as ... julia roberts ?
!
?
a clever twist ?
by breaking the fourth wall three hours after we 've been introduced to these characters ?
is this the naked gun 33 and 1/3 ?
it 's a textbook example of how a cheap laugh can ruin an entire film .
but wait ... just in case you have n't walked out yet ... 2. the suspense builds throughout the last hour of the movie -- how will they pull off the heist -- there are only 10 ... 8 ... 5 ... 2 days left !
and then in the last 12 minutes of the film , the only entertaining part of this movie , we see that the heist was made days earlier and took matt damon all of 30 seconds to pull off .
the past 10 days ?
a complete waste of your time.back to indiana jones on the rope bridge ... '' just relax , willie !
i stole the real stones back about a month ago !
besides , i convinced them you were kate capshaw !
`` if you have n't already seen it , cut your losses and go see the polar express .
i do n't want to ruin the ending for you , but there really is a santa claus .
most importantly , you wo n't feel cheated leaving the theater .