i had very high hopes walking into this movie .
after all , ocean 's 11 was a truly great hollywood product .
its rapid-fire jokes , incredible star power and tight script made it one of the most fun caper films i have ever seen .
of course , with all the money it made , a sequel was on the way , and i , for one , was excited.needless to say , i was absolutely blown away by this movie .
blown away by how horribly wrong things can go .
this movie had everything going for it ; the return of the entire original cast , the same director , news stories of crazy on- and off-set antics .
how could it possibly have gone so wrong ?
it starts immediately with one of the most awkward and unnecessary opening sequences ever and goes downhill from there .
after reasonably goofy short scenes between pitt/zeta-jones and clooney/roberts , the film spends several minutes watching andy garcia waltz from scene to scene , telling each individual member of danny ocean 's original eleven that he wants his money back .
believe me when i say that these scenes are only here to pad andy garcia 's running time , because without these ridiculously awkward shots , his screen time would be well under five minutes.this leads me to another major qualm i had with this film .
the pacing is so uneven that characters are dropped completely from the story , and only sometimes brought back later .
bernie mac 's character is dropped from the script early on , and never comes back except for 2 short scenes with no dialogue .
garcia appears for the first few minutes , and returns for an exceptionally brief scene at the end .
roberts shows up for about 5 minutes at the beginning , and is n't even mentioned again until there 's about 20-25 minutes left .
even clooney himself spends a large chunk of the film in prison.this would all be excusable if the film was funny .
at all .
90 % of the jokes fall completely flat and the ones that do work are worth a chuckle at best .
the `` plot '' is undeniably worthless , and left me feeling cheated .
at one point in the film , the team takes on a job worth $ 2.5 million of the nearly $ 100 million they need to raise before garcia 's two-week deadline .
several characters even acknowledge how absurd wasting the time to do this job is , but they do it anyway !
over 30 minutes of the film revolve around this job that they should n't even be doing , and one gets the feeling that this part of the plot was simply added to pad the running time .
furthermore , the equipment they use to pull this job off clearly cost millions upon millions to fund .
just wait until you see what they do to pull this job and realize it would cost far more than $ 2.5 million to pull off .
obviously , because of this , they have to pull off several jobs to make the money .
the beauty of the first film was the one big con and how ingeniously and intricately it was pulled off .
here , they pull so many jobs , in so many different ways , that they rush through all of them because to explain them would make the film several hours long.we all know walking into this film that there will be a big twist at the end .
thus is the nature of the caper film .
the twist at the end of ocean 's twelve made me laugh ; not because it was funny , but because i could n't believe how cheated i felt .
i wo n't give it away , because i know most of you will be foolish enough to throw down the money to see this movie anyway.what i will say is that it makes most of the 2 hours you have sat through already completely irrelevant.i was excited to see this film , after absolutely adoring ocean 's 11. i left the theater feeling like i had been the victim of a truly great con pulled by the cast and crew of this movie in tricking me into thinking that this movie would actually be worth watching .
i have never given a 1 to a movie on imdb.com , but there 's a first time for everything .
consider yourselves warned ... .1/10