like a terrible cancer raining out of the sky , i wandered into this crock on some movie channel the other night .
being a fan of bad movies , and actively engaging in the purchasing and viewing of said bad film , i was intrigued by the idea of a genuinely terrible looking action movie coming from modern times .
after that wore off though , i found my hands inexplicably turning against me , grabbing at anything in range and stabbing about my head and neck .
something sinister was in that tape ... err ... where was i ... anyway this ranks among the more embarrassingly bad pieces of film i 've run across .
william forsythe ca n't play more than one character , and that character is always a walking joke .
even when set into a comic background and given things to do and say that are supposed to be funny ( ala deuce bigalo ) he 's laughable in the wrong way .
erika eleniak is much the same , having starred in her fair share of terrible movies and done terrible jobs in all of them , she does n't fail to help scum up this one .
classic b-movie villain guy andrew divoff does a respectable job but barely even has any scenery to chew on .
even reliable standby for b-movie action daniel bernhardt fails to deliver anything bordering on entertainment .
as for the film 's own merits , the plot is lame , the script , just like the action and the plot movement , is both dull and ... well , stupid , for lack of a better adjective ( lord knows they did n't put any effort into it , why should i ? )
.anyone who has seen enough movies has seen some bad ones , and anyone who has seen enough bad ones can learn to appreciate them , but there is simply nothing here to be enjoyed unless you are among the most bad movie tolerant and simply feel so inclined as to test your mettle .
before you do though , take it from me , this one is n't even terrible enough to be enjoyed ( unlike say ... some of the more ludicrous italian zombie films ) .
a fan of b-movie action would be much better off checking out most any of bernhardt 's other films , or pretty much anything else that has ever been put to film for that matter .
america simply is not the place to go to for action it seems , especially not now .
if you have a craving , check out anything from over the seas , films like heroic duo or the slightly less normal hakaider ( along with anything else in the awesome keita amemiya 's cannon ) will provide a lot more fun and way better action than your apt to find elsewhere , especially here .