`` fat girls '' is among the worst films within the indie gay genre.the premise is promising : an average-looking gay teen is trapped in a repressive small tx town .
his only kindred spirits are the other village hs misfits : the class 'fat girl ' , a naïve immigrant from cuba , and the sensitive drama teacher .
so far , interesting .
in theory , this plot line creates a decent setup for an appealing coming of age story with a built-in audience -- -the thousands of gay men who grew up in small towns across america and experienced this adolescent anxiety first hand , peppered with a dose of self-deprecating humor.unfortunately , rather than a nuanced dramedy , ash christian approaches his autobiographical subject matter with a poorly executed attempt at irony and dark humor .
the result is a cast of unlikeable , derivative , two-dimensional characters which the viewer can not but help feel indifferent toward .
sabrina ( fink ) is a quasi-goth bitter navel-gazer .
she is such a prickly , unsympathetic person ; there is little doubt as to the reason for her friendless condition .
the chemistry between her and rodney ( christian ) registers zero .
this may have been bad casting , but is more likely due to a screenplay which is simply unsalvageable .
consequently , one is left wondering when there is such a non-existent bond , what could possibly warrant their near-constant companionship throughout the story.sabrina 's newfound boyfriend , rudy ( de jesus ) , and rodney 's mother judy ( theaker ) are among the most exaggerated of the clichéd stock characters ripped off from dozens of other films .
rudy is the horny undersexed immigrant/nerd lifted directly from every raunchy adolescent `` comedy '' ever made within the realm of tv or film .
judy is the born-again obsessed with jesus- talk and big hair .
just when you thought the tammy faye thing had been done to death , christian inserts a scene where judy 's mascara is running with her tears !
is there anyone in the civilized world that can possibly think this tired old stereotype gag is still funny after seeing it ad nauseum for 20 years ?
in addition to the failed attempts at sardonic humor , there are many puzzling story inconsistencies .
rodney considers himself a `` fat ugly '' loser .
however , he simultaneously manages to participate in casual and regular impromptu trysts with the ubiquitous school jock/hunk , ted ( miller ) .
although these liaisons are devoid of emotional fulfillment , most gay teens ( filled with raging testosterone , just like their hetero brethren ) would find this to be a rather enviable arrangement given the more common alternative of involuntary celibacy.rodney finds an object for his affection in bobby ( bruening ) , an exotic transplant from england .
against all believable odds , the lad not only happens to land in this tiny tx hamlet , but is conveniently openly gay to boot .
like sabrina , bobby is an icy , angry smart aleck and the viewer is left head-scratching as to his magnetic appeal .
much to his delight , rodney is invited by his new crush to the town gay bar , where bobby claims to be the dj .
upon arrival , the boyfriend-to-be promptly leaves rodney solo and heads off to another area of the bar for a quick encounter with a rather handsome young man .
this is yet one more of the ridiculously inexplicable plot elements since rodney 's feeling as an outcast are supposedly derived largely from his lonely existence in a parochial town .
as tiny as the town is , they have openly gay students at the high school ?
a secretly bisexual football captain ?
lesbian moms ?
a gay teacher ?
and it has a gay bar downtown ( patronized by attractive men , no less ) ?
apparently , the place is not so backwater after all.ten years earlier , todd stephens ' `` edge of seventeen '' covered nearly the same material with a much more creative , honest , touching , and humorous film .