ugh .
pretty awful.linnea quigley gets top billing , but her character does n't have a big part .
who is her character supposed to be anyway , the little boy 's aunt ?
another user commented on her getting nude in a shower scene .
while there was a shower scene in the movie , it was a head and shoulders shot .
perhaps there are some alternate versions of this movie.quigley does have a bigger part than john carradine , cameron mitchell , and brinke stevens , though .
carradine shows up briefly in a monkish robe reciting vague dialog .
no other characters are in the scene with him , though he 's sort of composited in , or else there are over-the-shoulder shots unquestionably belonging to someone else .
there 's also a really bad photo of him in a cameo locket ( it looks like a bad photocopy ) , and a decent picture of him in a family bible .
he conjured up jack-o originally , or something like that.cameron mitchell briefly shows up on a tv as a tv horror host .
brinke stevens is in the movie he 's showing `` the coven , '' in which she runs around a cemetery in a robe .
evidently there 's more of the brinke footage as a bonus feature on the retromedia dvd double feature mark of the witch/the brides wore blood.jack-o : what 's it about ?
darn if i know .
a little boy is told a story about a pumpkin-headed demon killer , and he and some other kids are scared by a woman they think is a witch for some reason .
she follows him home and offers to help his family with their haunted garage for halloween ( put your hand through a hole and feel eyeballs that are actually grapes , etc. )
.
the pumpkin-headed killer shows up several times to hold onto branches while he watches people , or hold his scythe in front of the camera and pose with it for a while .
sometimes he manages to do more than just stand around holding things , and actually kills people.there are also some flashbacks to a western or prairie family , with the little boy playing the little boy in that family too : ancestors of his , i think .
i think they figure into jack-o 's backstory , but i 'm not sure how.the little boy is ostensibly the main character , but we do n't really learn anything about him except that he wears glasses , has nightmares , and will fight bullies even if he 'll get beat up in the process .
more time should have been spent establishing his character .
i could n't have cared less if he died.not recommended , not even for halloween .