i bought jack-o a number of months ago at a blockbuster video sale , and at the time i was n't expecting anything outstanding from it .
upon watching it , i realized i not only got less than i could have ever bargained for , but a whole lot more as well .
it seems , strange , i know .
and it is .
but it 's perfectly fitting when you consider that the utter weirdness that is `` jack-o '' the movie follows a young boy named shawn kelly .
somehow , thru ancestral ties , he is marked for death at the hands of a demented , scythe wielding pumpkin man .
this pumpkin man was killed by shawn 's great-grandfather-uncle-cousin-etc , and now that the villain has been resurrected , shawn 's death is apparently crucial to his hell-bred mission of vengeance .
anyway , much `` horror '' ensues as jack-o hacks his way thru various neighbors before battling shawn to the finish.i 'm not so much here to discuss the plot as i am to determine who may find any worth in this movie .
i can honestly tell you that jack-o is one of the most poorly made movies in the history of time .
the acting is deadpan ( except when it should be ) , the script is apparently a 1st grade group project , and the production budget must not have exceeded $ 150 .
some of the most laughable death scenes are carried out in this anti-thriller , and they 're all the more humorous when you realize director steve latshaw actually seems serious in his movie-making.and yet i heartily enjoyed the film .
i can call it a terrible horror movie , yes .
but i can also say i had a great time watching it with my friends , and have watched it several times since that fateful first viewing .
many people ( including some of my friends ) will find this movie intolerable and needlessly time-consuming , and that 's understandable .
if you 're like me and enjoy ridiculously bad horror movies that take themselves seriously , you 'll find jack-o an instant classic , which is also understandable.that 's why it 's so hard to rate this movie .
if i were rating jack-o 's quality as a film , i would n't give it anything .
in fact , the studio would owe me stars .
yet if i were rating it 's on the basis of pure enjoyment , i 'd give it an 8 or a 9. i 'll give it a 4 , so to be somewhere in the middle .
i recommend everyone go out , rent this , and form their own conclusion .