i bought this out of curiosity .
how did john carradine ( who died in 1988 ) and cameron mitchell ( who died in 1994 ) make appearances in a film made in 1995 ?
thanks to the miracle of unused film can footage that 's probably been sitting on a shelf somewhere for ten years , that 's how !
you can tell because the film stock used to shoot their scenes does n't match the film used for shooting `` jack-o . ''
the curse of ed wood lives on .
the good thing for both carradine and mitchell is that this is exactly the kind of movie you 'd expect to find on both of their filmographies .
same goes for scream queens linnea quigley , brinke stevens and dawn wildsmith.the setting is oakmoor crossing on halloween , and some kind of curse is released when dumb , beer-guzzling teens disrupt a grave .
the result : a hulking killer with a scythe and a big plastic pumpkin on his head !
he ( it ? )
goes after the wholesome kelly family for revenge ( and kills others who get in his way ) .
the father opens a haunted garage for the neighborhood kiddies .
the son ( ryan latshaw , son of the director ) has one continuous , perplexed facial expression for all his scenes and one hilariously badly acted dramatic scene lying in a grave .
at least he 's a kid .
the mother 's eyes about pop out of her head while she strains to read her dialogue .
there is also an annoying woman who shows up to explain things who seems to be trying to phonetically pronounce all of her dialogue.so what about the name actors ?
you see stevens , wildsmith and mitchell briefly on a tv screen ( they 're used to pad out the time ) .
linnea has a bigger role as a babysitter , and she does exactly what she can with it .
her enthusiastic performance helps a little bit .
there 's also one out-of-nowhere laugh when an ultra-conservative couple who watch a rush limbaugh clone on tv bite it .
the woman slips on a rug and stabs a toaster with a knife .
she 's electrocuted and the end result looks like a flame-broiled muppet.all and all , pretty entertaining stuff !
i was n't bored !