i really did not want to write a harsh review of this movie because i genuinely appreciate how hard it is to make any kind of movie on an incredibly low budget , let alone attempt something as ambitious as a sci-fi.however this movie is truly awful .
the acting is among some of the worst i have ever had to endure and as a fan of low budget movies that is a pretty serious accusation to make .
there are plenty of aspiring actors out there who would work on a deferred payment scheme if they believed in the movie and what the director was trying to achieve .
i 'm sure the actors did their best as did everybody else involved in this production , but it simply was not good enough to pull off something of this magnitude.then there is the dialogue .
very poor indeed .
there is no excuse for that .
i got the impression the script was hastily written on the back of a beer mat after some epic boozing session .
i hesitate to use the word 'laughable ' but that 's exactly what the script is .
i had no empathy with any of the characters .
indeed they grated on me with the result that on more than one occasion i wanted to thump a couple of them mr stirton has overstretched himself by taking on too many roles .
clint eastwood he is not .
again , there are talented people out there willing to work on deferment if they believe in the project.much has been made of the special effects in this movie .
for the money , they are exceptional , if somewhat overused .
it is like someone said `` i have after effects and boy am i gon na use it '' .
whoever did the cg work was among the most talented of this crew.quite simply the money was not available to make as ambitious a movie as this attempts to be .
kudos for attempting it , but unfortunately it fails to reach its heady goals in far too many ways.i salute everyone involved with its production , i really do , but for their next effort they either need to get a better producer or lower their sights to something more manageable.in conclusion i can not recommend this effort to anyone other than the most enthusiastic of film students or habitual insomniacs .
if you want to watch a true masterpiece of low budget sci-fi films try the student made `` dark star '' by a certain mr john carpenter .