jacqueline hyde starts like any other normal day for telemarketing individual jackie hyde ( co-producer gabriella hall ) until her boss ( robert donovan ) fires her for taking personal calls at work , however it 's not all bad news as the call she took was from a lawyer informing her that her grandfather ( malcolm bennett ) has recently died & that he left her his mansion & fortune ( why does n't stuff like that ever happen to me ?
sigh ) .
very excited jackie heads on over there & makes herself right at home , while looking for the thermostat late one night jackie stumbles upon a secret room where her grandfather stashes the bright red formula that he invented that allows whoever drinks it to change their appearance .
being a bit on the porky side jackie finally settles on the glamorous jacqueline ( blythe metz ) , however jackie 's better looking alter-ego starts to take control ... written , co-produced & directed by rolfe kanefsky i thought jacqueline hyde was complete total & utter crap from start to finish & it 's as simple & straight forward as that .
according to the opening credits jacqueline hyde was 'inspired ' by the classic robert louis stevenson novel 'the strange case of dr. jekyll and mr. hyde ' , frankly if mr. stevenson could see what was being done to his story here he 'd turn in his grave .
for a start i think jacqueline hyde was/is intended to be a horror film , the imdb certainly lists it as such but there is n't any horror in it at all apart from just how bad it is .
i would say that jacqueline hyde is more a soft-core porno than anything else & extremely tame with it , why sit down & watch this softer than soft porno crap when you can watch you proper hard-core stuff that actually delivers the goods ?
why , that 's the question i ask here .
it 's not even good porn either , besides being far too soft it 's dull , boring & the not-worth-mentioning sex scenes are few & far between .
the most intelligent aspect of this film is the title which would have been quite clever if not for the fact that another film used the jacqueline hyde ( 1998 ) title during the last century & judging by the imdb 's plot summary it sounds a hell of a lot better than this piece of rubbish .
this is one of those films you have to watch yourself to see just how bad it is but just hope that you never get the opportunity.director kanefsky was obviously working on a low budget but that 's not an excuse these days , shot on a digital camcorder the film looks cheap & the few instances of cgi look like they came from a nintendo gameboy , the final 'shocking ' twist has probably the worst morph effect i 've ever seen & is pretty good for a laugh as is the scene when jackie 's breasts grow via more terrible cgi .
that 's another thing , the film takes itself far too seriously .
the subject matter sucks , is far too predictable & makes for a poor film but maybe if the dialogue had been intentionally funny with some dirty porn talk the film might have been more fun to watch , alas it is n't so it is n't .
forget about any decent horror , violence or gore as there is n't any apart from a surprisingly bloodless decapitation at the end.technically jacqueline hyde is home made film type stuff , the photography is of the flat hand held point- & -shoot variety , the music , production design & special effects are of a suitably low standard to match the script .
the acting was awful , seriously this is bad.jacqueline hyde in my opinion a load of crap , there is not one positive thing about this turgid film that i can think of .
any proper film lover will have an almost impossible time trying to find any redeeming value in this crap , definitely one to avoid .