despite the fact that this was a made-for-tv movie ( and an obvious one at that : ie.
, cheap looking ) , class warfare left me wishing i could get my money back , and considering this lame production was partially funded through canadian dollars , i might just be entitled.what made me sit through it in the first place was seeing actress lindsey mckeon , who i 've watched for the last couple years in her role as `` goody-goody '' mara lewis on the soap-opera guiding light , taking a turn at playing `` the bad girl '' for a change .
surprisingly she does quite well , as kristen , a spoiled rich-b*tch who suddenly finds herself dirt-poor , but with a conniving streak , and a twist of fate , that will possibly change her fortunes back around .
the twist of fate is provided in the character of richard ( robin dunne ) , a socially-radical outcast who discovers that he has just gone from having nothing to winning $ 23 million on a lottery ticket .
now , put richard , kristen , her jock-boyfriend jason ( wade carpenter ) , and their camcorder-obsessed mutual buddy graham ( dave mcgowan ) together for the weekend in a remote cabin , cut off from the world by storms , and just guess what unfolds.the film suffers from congesting both the story and characters'personas and motives too much .
everyone is pretty one-dimensional and it does n't take a rocket-scientist to figure out that some things , and some people , are going to go very bad , very quickly .
i do n't think this is that original a plot and it does n't go out of it 's way to make itself anything more .
the acting is ok , mckeon is spot-on as the manipulative female lead , and dunne is very good , perhaps a little too good at times , but no one else is worth writing home about .
the only other real credit i can give the film is the one twist i did n't see coming towards the end ( not the very end though , that one is so obvious it hurts ) .
regardless , i sat through all of it and lived to tell the tale so i ca n't say it was a complete write-off .
4/10 .
a `` something-to-watch-when-nothing-else-is-on '' type movie .