the man with the golden arm ( the movie ) is a decent career vehicle for frank sinatra , but fails abysmally as a good adaptation of a fantastic book .
you always hear about how books are `` changed '' when they are made into films- things are cut out , dumbed down , etc .
well , you ca n't even say they `` changed '' anything with the movie- they just told a completely different story .
the characters and setting are the same sure- but not the ambiguous characterization , the depth of the men and women of polish chicago in the book .
as for the setting , it 's become merely a play stage , complete with the unnecessary `` supporting role '' players walking all too busilly down the claustrophobic , interior exterior streets .
the movie is a dumbed-down , completely different take on frankie machine and drug addiction .
when this happens , zosh , frankie , sparrow , all lose their psychological edge .
frankie 's drumming , a modest dream in the book , becomes his full passion in the movie ( probably because sinatra is a musician ) .
and drug addiction is treated as shlock , exploitavely .
the acting is decent , especially the snakelike louie , who is more menacing in the movie than the book .
but it 's just a shame this kind of movie can be heralded as a classic alongside the book it is `` based upon , '' the real story of frankie machine .
the movie just goes to show hollywood can ' get anything right without dumbing it down and adding a happy ending .
in this case , they just changed it completely , cheapening an important and realistic story into hollywood fluff .
i 'm sure as hell biased because i read the book first , so i ca n't really treat the movie honestly by knowing how good the book is .
i actually thought about turning the movie off ( and i never do that ) , just so i would n't get its silly plot confused with the beauty of the book .
but this is an overrated film , and while it 's not so bad , the book should come first , as it was the first .
and it should have remained the only story of division street and frankie machine .