first of all , let me start by saying that i have been a devoted follower of c thomas howell 's career ever since `` the outsiders '' and `` the hitcher '' .
he was an up and coming star in the 1980s - with hits such as `` soul man '' also .
the future was bright for this young actor and he had the potential to go on from there and really assert himself in hollywood .
put it this way - tom cruise had a bit part in `` the outsiders '' while howell had the lead .
look at cruise today !
!
!
but picking material like this drivel will only denigrate howell 's career even more - if that was possible .
why does he pick stuff like this ?
a small part in a major movie would be of more benefit to him than this rubbish.essentially the story here takes place in a post-apocalyptic world where everybody lives underground where chaos reigns .
howell is a shepherd - protecting the flock of various religious leaders by killing off any undesirables .
he 's a hit-man in other words.the sets are so bad , they would n't look out of place on a thunderbirds episode .
the use of slow-motion needlessly repeats itself throughout the movie but is well backed up by bad acting ( and bad is a kind word here ) , no continuity , scenes that are thrown in for no reason whatsoever , vehicles that looked like they were made from a corn flakes box and a directorial style that bordered on stupidity .
oh yeah , and the storyline was pathetic too.i hate writing bad reviews about films - especially those in which i really like the star - but this film is so bad i do n't believe for one second that anyone could have been proud of it .
i am not a filmmaker nor am i a director but i would hide my head in the sand if i 'd spent whatever amount of money and time on this movie.in short - this was a monumental waste of time and energy and i would not recommend anyone to ever see this film .
it came free with a dvd player i bought but i still turned the thing off halfway through because i was embarrassed for howell .
come on c - give yourself some credit and wrestle yourself away from these non-hit wonders and try to knuckle down and get a good part - however small.1/10 - and only because there is no setting for 0/10 .