this is the greatest example i can think of to prove the theory that when hollywood runs out of good ideas , they make an awful sequel and ruin the first one .
now do n't get me wrong , i absolutely love the first beastmaster ; i even liked the third one pretty good , but this movie is atrocious .
i am a huge fantasy/sword & sorcery movie fan and i hated to see such a terrible sequel made to such a classic as the first beastmaster .
so why do i hate this movie so much ?
well , where do i begin ?
first of all , the whole idea of the movie is ridiculous .
dar and his evil older brother arklon ( who was nowhere mentioned in the first movie..huh ? )
cross over into our world via a handy dimensional time-portal gate .
ya see , earth just happens to be on the same parallel interdimentional plane as dar 's world .
whereas with the first movie , you 're led to think the movie just takes place in the past , but with this one you 're shown it 's a completely whole other world altogether ... that 's just one of the many things i hated about this sequel .
it did n't work with `` masters of the universe '' , and it sure does n't work here either !
movies like this should take place and stay in their own time-line and their usual surroundings .
for christ 's sake , what 's next ?
hercules in new york ... er , uh..bad example !
moving on ... arklon 's after a device called a neutron detonator to use as a threat against his enemies to rule his own kingdom .
so , it 's up to dar , his ferrets , his eagle , and his tiger ( not a spray-painted one this time ) to go off and save the world ... but along the way they have the help of a young , cool , and hip senator 's daughter who gets caught up in this whole mess and she show 's dar around l.a. , takes him for a joyride in her bmw , and helps get him out of tight situations here and there .
how convenient right ?
and speaking of convenient , i found it awfully convenient and easy for arklon to sneak into a highly guarded military base and get away with a stolen , highly destructive nuclear weapon ... even with half the u.s. army and l.a.p.d .
after him ... .waaaaay to easy , even for an evil barbarian sorcerer from another world .
there are sooo many plot holes in this i do n't know where to begin ; like why did arklon go to the l.a. zoo for at the end of the movie ?
!
?
he absolutely has no reason whatsoever to go there ; and would n't that be like the last place you 'd lure your greatest enemy who just so happens to have the handy ability to control animals ?
and do n't you just love these kinds of movies where the police are portrayed as total idiots and even with half a dozen cops firing at one guy , they still do n't manage to hit him ?
the police in this movie belong in the `` police academy '' series !
they are about as useful in this movie as reading glasses are for the blind !
even the title of the movie makes no sense : `` beastmaster 2 : through the portal of time '' ... they never actually went through a `` time '' portal because the movie is n't set in the future of dar 's world , it 's set in a parallel world along ours in the astral plane , so they never actually go through time , only a dimensional world along theirs ; so no actual time-travel is involved at all !
this movie tries to come off as funny and it does ... not because of the humor , but because it 's just so bad ... and that 's putting it mildly .
the acting , dialogue , plot , characters , and ending are all so cheesy it 's hilarious .
what more can i expect from the guy that brought us `` return of the swampthing '' ( another bad sequel ) ?
sorely missed here is don coscarelli 's wonderful directing and serious feel of the first one !
!
avoid this stinking piece of garbage like the bubonic plague and stick which the first one and maybe the third one if there 's nothing better on t.v .