this is a hard film to rate .
while it truly deserves its 3 ( or perhaps even a two ) , for an al adamson film , it 's exceptional -- and practically adamson 's very best .
that 's because unlike many adamson films , there are times when nurse sherri almost looks competent .
but , being an adamson film , you know that sooner or later that crappiness must rear its ugly head !
the film begins with some bizarre cult leader of a huge congregation ( six ) trying to resurrect a dead guy who looks like he 's made of blue cheese .
however , in the process , the cult dude has a heart attack and it taken to the hospital .
he apparently dies , but it also seems like many of these hospital scenes are missing and a few of them appear much later in the film .
in other words , when you see the film , he appears to have possibly recovered -- only to hear later that he 'd died .
because the guy is the b.f.f .
of satan , however , his evil soul ca n't die and he comes back to both haunt one of his henchmen and to possess nurse sherri.now , sherri is obviously a very disturbed lady -- demonic possession or not .
at times she acts like a zombie and at others she 's violently homicidal .
so i ask ... '' why did n't her boyfriend ( a doctor ) think this was , perhaps , problematic ?
! ''
.
in other words , after trying to kill a patient , he neither gets an exorcist nor commits her to the booby hatch !
!
!
oh , and speaking of boobies ... this movie is not the breast-filled sex romp its title and posters would indicate .
while there are a few bare breasts here and there , they are irrelevant to the plot and only seen very briefly ( 1/2 second or so ) in all but one scene .
so , if you are a perv , this movie is not for you -- though a few places in the film ( such as the nurse undressing for a patient ) make it look like the film might have , at one time , been designed as a porn flick.if you are a bad movie fan , however , there is enough to whet your appetite .
some examples of incompetence are the inability of many of the actors to deliver lines that are n't zombie-like -- and i am not even talking about sherri .
especially noticeable is one of the very final scenes -- i have never seen and heard some stilted acting and dialog in my life -- and this includes ed wood 's films !
there are also a few more cheap touches , such as the bad animation of the `` green stuff '' , the doctor finding a murdered nurse yet continuing to investigate in a house where walls are covered in blood ( i 'd get a cop ... better yet , an army of cops ) .so despite these problems , why do i think it 's good for an adamson film ?
well , the story is n't all bad and he was able to build tension very well .
many false alarms early on made my heart race a bit .
also , the car crash , while irrelevant , came off pretty well and was practically big-budget for adamson.overall , not a good film and one most people would be bored watching .
however , fans of adamson or inept films will like it -- it does deliver some entertainment in a cheesy manner that will provide a few laughs .