this critique tells the story of 4 little friends who went to watch angels and demons the movie on the first night it came out , even though it was a school night , because `` angels and demons is worth it . ''
two of the four had read the book .
of those that did n't , a guy , was wearing pink skinny jeans .
this was the least eventful part of the evening after watching the abhorrent angels and demons.the movie starts out in a lab where the antimatter is being created while another process is going on .
and apparently someone knows about it or something .
notice how very confused i am.. i do n't get what happened : they were just making the antimatter .
vittoria finds her own father dead ... what ?
the illuminati symbol sent to langdon is a printout , not a burn on someone 's chest .
they take out the x-33 scene .
they take out maxmillian kohler .
they , pretty much , take out cern and the symbology connected to it .
they take out the hassasin and replace him with some religious , british dude .
they take out the illuminati diamond .
they take out vittoria 's near-rape scene .
they take out langond 's fight with the hassasin ( now british dude on crack ) .
they take out the press dude following them around .
they take out the death of the fourth cardinal .
they take out the fact that the camerlengo becomes pope .
they take out the camerlengo 's grand scheme .
they take out langdon 's being in the helicopter and landing on that island toward the end .
they take out the fact that vittoria 's father was a scientific priest .
they take out langdon 's fun and most unfortunately , they take out vittoria 's sexual appeal.other than the movie completely losing focus of the details , the movie is acted horribly .
one must admit , though , there were some good things .
for example , the sistine chapel recreation must have been extremely difficult and it was extremely well done .
the explosion scene was mind-blowing .
other than that , screw this movie for ruining the book for the people who did n't read it .