the film opens with a cult leader attempting to resurrect a dead member with his followers chanting for his rebirth as the sun strikes upon them in the desert .
reanhauer ( bill roy ) believes wholeheartedly in his power , and gets so worked up that he collapses with what appeared to be a heart attack .
unable to keep him alive , all those involved , doctors and nurses , are sentenced for attack with reanhauer 's demonic spirit invading the curvaceous body of nurse sherri ( ..big-chested jill jacobson ) targeting each one using her as a tool of vengeance .
forced against her will , with no memory of inflicting such harm , sherri 's host body murders selected victims .
fortunately , sherri 's fellow co-worker , nurse tara ( marilyn joi ) begins a rather blossoming romance with a blinded patient , marcus washington ( prentiss moulden ) , once a star football player , whose mother was a practitioner of voodoo .
through marcus ' knowledge , passed down from mom , tara finds out about possession and how to possibly save sherri before she murders everyone unknowingly .
meanwhile , sherri 's lover , dr. peter desmond ( geoffrey land ) worries about her present condition and welfare.well , this was my first al adamson film and i must agree with his detractors that , just from this film alone , it seems he holds them together with paper clips and elmer 's glue .
the animation with which we see the spirit take control of sherri is beyond awful and rather laughable .
a little soft-core nonsense as filler , some demonic possession thrown in the mix ( sherri actually speaks in another voice when she 's possessed ) , with naughty nurse behavior ( ..the three nurses focused on in the film all are quite sexually active and free-spirited ) and a little bit violence/gore .
the film is essentially shot in tiny rooms with dull dialogue from a rather mundane cast .
the sexual situations are n't that hard-core and al often shoots them without revealing all that much .
the film looks embarrassingly cheap and there 's an absence of thrills , although the chilling score ( ..which sounds like something from dark shadows ) does help a little bit .
jacobson and mary kay pass ( ..as nurse beth who seems to be a nymphomaniac if she 'll even screw a nutty patient , always complaining of illnesses he really does n't have , with enough chest hair to declare him a neanderthal ) are n't bad looking , and adamson 's story-line , although frail , is somewhat coherent ( ..it seems he rarely directs films which are ) .
overall , the movie looks like it cost 5 bucks and adamson just can not overcome the budgetary restrictions ( ..or , in my opinion , create an unpleasant enough atmosphere due to a sometimes plodding narrative and tedious scenes which do little for the story ) .
john f goff has the role of the hospital 's psychiatrist who wants to commit sherri , not believing the idea that she was possessed ; he constantly bickers with peter over her .
i watched the unrated `` lost '' version which i guess is the real version to watch of nurse sherri .