it is difficult to imagine how the engaging dan brown novel `` angels and demons '' could misfire as badly as this film version .
here are ten reasons why the film was a failure .
due to the spoilers , please do no read on unless you have already seen the film .
( 1 ) in the film , there was no love relationship between robert langdon and vittoria vetra .
worse still , there was not even any chemistry between the two leading actors .
( 2 ) the breathtaking locations in rome , as described in the novel , were not realized visually in the film .
i am aware that director ron howard encountered difficulties in filming on location .
but there are superior photographed depictions of rome on the history channel than in this film where the eternal city was presented in eternal stock film footage .
the great art works described in the novel were only briefly depicted in the film .
the magnificent bernini sculpture of the `` ecstasy of st. teresa '' was only momentarily glimpsed , and the west ponente relief in vatican square was not visible at all .
( 3 ) the most tasteless choice made by the film-maker was in the depiction of the deceased pope who actually resembled the beloved john paul ii .
in the novel , the pope is clearly fictional with no resemblance to any real pope .
( 4 ) one of the most colorful ( and important ) characters of the novel , maximilian kohler , director of cern , was cut out of the screenplay .
( 5 ) there were numerous instances when the lines of dialog were inaudible due to extraneous background noise .
( 6 ) there were moments when the faces of characters were not visible due to the shadows and chiaroscuro film lighting .
this technique worked in `` the godfather '' films , but ron howard is no gordon willis .
( 7 ) the college of cardinals was quite a motley crew with one of the electors speaking in a southern drawl .
this dude would have been more at home on a texas ranch than in the sistine chapel .
( 8 ) the crucial relationship of the camerlengo and the deceased pope was not defined in the film .
this relationship was central to the theme of science vs. religion and the relevance of the illuminati to the plot against the church .
( 9 ) in the novel , the character of hassassin was an unforgettable villain .
in the film , that assassin character 's role was a cardboard cutout villain .
( 10 ) as a whole , the filmmakers did not trust the workings of the successful novel.in the novel , langdon makes an impossible fall out of the sky and into the tiber river .
in ron howard 's film , it was the movie itself that landed in the tiber .