perhaps i 'm being too generous when i give this film two and a half stars out of five , but there was an occasional moment .
however , as `` an american werewolf '' movie this one is a missed chance !
there are no real plot connections to the superior original to speak of , but the story is similar in some ways to `` london '' .
*possible spoiler warning* american kids go to foreign country , one falls in love with a beautiful girl .
another one of the kids gets slaughtered by a werewolf in the same night that one gets bitten , and despite his undead friend 's warnings , by the light of the full moon he sprouts fur , fangs , and claws !
but there are some differences in the story , for one ; the girl is one of the werewolves .
second ; there are three american kids .
and third ; there 's some weird- @ $ $ werewolf cult intent on taking over the world !
as crazy as it sounds , that last one , was n't a joke !
*spoiler ends*the films suffers from many things , first the weak acting drags it down immensely !
tom everret scott 's performance is amatuerish at best , and he and julie delpy , who plays his love interest , do n't seem to have any chemistry together at all .
second ; a weak script that seems to be all over the place .
many elements of suspense and dark comedy , that made the original one great , are missing in this one .
and whoever said that eating out the heart of the werewolf that bit you will change you back human ?
last i heard this was n't part of werewolf lore at all !
third ; terrible special effects ; the werewolf effects are done with computer animation , which works for things such as dinosaurs , ghosts , and space ships .
but seems choppy , fake and artificial , when used for furry creatures like werewolves.however there were a few things that saved this one from total `` turkeydom '' , there 's one hilarious scene in a paris cafe when andy ( scott ) is having coffee with serafine ( delpy ) , he drops a bunch of condoms on the table , and tries to pass them off as chewing gum , by chewing and blowing a bubble !
also ; the soundtrack , a very cool mix of alternative rock bands like bush and smashmouth .
although none of the songs have the word `` moon '' in their title , like the original movie , the soundtrack is great nontheless .
and another funny scene when a rotting corpse , played by julie bowen , attempts to whistle and her eyeball pops out , had me laughing out loud.but as a whole this film seems to lack the wit and suspense of the original .
and the overly contrived ending does n't help it out much either .
**1/2 two and a half out of five stars ( average . )