once upon a time there was a great american film .
which combined horror and comedy with equal thrills .
this film featured clever direction .
groundbreaking special effects and superb comedic and serious acting .
it was entitled 'an american werewolf in london . '
sixteen years later the long awaited sequel was finally pinned onto the poster board outside your local theater .
surely it would have at least some of the thrills of the original .
think again .
'an american werewolf in paris ' is an incomprehensible mess from start to pitiful finish .
the problems begin with the leading man .
tom everett scott 's performance is stiff and tiresome .
from the outset he seems intent on proving that all young people are simpletons .
in his defense , not even a seasoned shakespearean thespian could have extracted a good performance from the juvenile and witless dialogue .
at one point , one of scott 's deceased friends , who 's soul is doomed to walk the earth after being carved up by one of the werewolves , is finally able to leave for the afterlife .
he then quips to scott and his friends .
'okay guys , see ya . '
what a memorable goodbye .
julie delphy soon shows up as scott 's mysterious european love interest .
basically , she 's a french girl playing the french girl .
it is n't much of a stretch .
but all this stupidity is n't even the most disappointing thing about the film .
the special effects , such an integral part of the superb original film , fall far short in this flop .
the werewolves look like cartoons .
and no matter how well you sculpt a cartoon with sinewy lycanthrope muscles .
it 's still hard to get scared of a cartoon .
so instead the vacationing american gang , led by the ultra weak scott , keep finding excuses to return to the werewolf 's catacombs lair .
here it 's much easier for this incompetent special effects crew to keep the computer enhanced creatures or absurd beast masks under the cover of darkness .
some have said that if you do n't look on this film as a sequel it 's not as bad by comparison .
i disagree , this film can not stand on its own , and is even more of a disgrace when compared to the brilliant original .
if it does n't want to be looked on as a sequel it should not have borrowed most of the title from the 1981 film .
i , do n't care how much you love werewolves .
or how much you worshiped 'american werewolf in london . '
as i myself did .
this one is simply not worth wasting your time .
'okay guys , see ya . '
terrible .
3 out of a possible 10 t.h .