i ca n't honestly believe that this is a sequel or follow up of john landis classic comedy horror movie from 1981 .
i suppose you ca n't really describe it as an original werewolf movie either since the bare bones of the story steal elements from the one set in london : an american tourist visits a famous european capital , he narrowly survives a werewolf attack that kills a colleague , he embarks ( pardon the pun ) on a sexual relationship with someone in the medical profession , he turns into a werewolf , he 's visited by apparitions of his dead victims , etc etc .
and reading the previous line i 've just discovered how much the storyline has in common with the original that it seems very similar indeed .
the difference lies in how enjoyable and entertaining the landis movie is with this paris based movie there 's no scenes that really stand out .
there 's no naked man waking up in a zoo wondering how he 's going to get back home with no money or clothes , there 's no bizarre dream sequence of naziwerewolves and there 's no spectacular climax .
aawip does try to be funny but is there anything more embarrassing than failed humour ?
i 'm thinking of the scene where andy mcdermott has to convince someone he 's got chewing gum in his pocket and not condoms !
perhaps the biggest difference between the two movies is that there 's no poignancy involved with this dubious follow up .
you really do feel sorry for the protagonist 's fate and dilemma in the london movie , here you just feel andy is nothing more than a cypher going through the literary motions of a script .
there 's also a large number of plot holes visible .
is this the first time the lunar club have carried out a massacre ?
if not then are n't large numbers of corpses with their hearts torn out been reported in the world 's press ?
why have n't the police got leads ?
everyone else has mentioned it and so will i - the visuals are poor .
look at the bungee jumping scene at the eifell tower , it 's painfully obvious that it 's achieved via some blue screen projection while the werewolf transformation is done by some very cartoonish cgi .
i wo n't put anthony waller in the same bracket as stephen sommers as a director who totally ruins a movie because of an over reliance on cgi ( the major problem with aawip is the screenplay coupled with a high degree of expectation from those who saw the 1981 movie classic ) but i would have preferred the rick baker type special effects used for the transformation .
to be fair it 's reasonable to speculate that perhaps the budget did n't stretch that far .
but at the end of the day this is a fairly poor horror movie that did n't need to be made and dog soldiers is much better entertainment