larry is a perfect example of the democratic party in the united states , of which he is a staunch member .
king used to be somewhat fair and unbiased and had a variety of guests on .
the party used to be centrist , too , but that was another era .
now , like , larry , it 's far left .
at least 90 percent of all the guests on king 's show in the past year or two are liberals who sit there and bash president bush and every conservative they can think of ... ..night after night .
bill mahar , one of the more viscous ones , is - and you can look this up - the most frequent guest in the history of king 's tv show .
you can count on other outspoken left wingers to be on king 's show each week , but do n't hold your breath waiting for a conservative .
they are few and far between.king was also one of the innovators of the media overkill .
that all began with the o.j .
simpson trial .
night after night after night that 's all you ever saw back in the mid '90s .
whatever latest gossip on anna nicole smith , or the petersen murder case , or paris hilton , britney spears or some other tabloid subject , you can bet larry will beat it to death .
sadly , all the other networks do the same thing now .
larry was a leader in that regard.king also has the nerve to sometimes give advice , such as on marriage .
i am not kidding ; i 've heard him say it .
the joke is that he has been married and divorced a half dozen times !
this man has few scruples , believe me .
when it comes to morality , he is clueless .
maybe that 's why he has dr. phil on , to explain some facts of life to him regularly .
larry will nod , but he does n't understand any more than when billy graham used to talk to him.king also is becoming famous for the `` softball '' interview , meaning he asks no hard questions .
that is a lot due to the fact that most his guests are of his political persuasion .
people know being on king 's show is liking having an hour public relations gig.what all this has meant is a serious decline in ratings the past five years .
people see through him and his liberal-and-tabloid-tv mentality and switched over from king and cnn to fox news .