how can anyone even begin to like this film is really beyond me.the idea ?
it has none .
`` a guy fell apart '' .
that 's the idea .
wow .
an environment was slowly killing him ... now that 's original and worth watching.this is the first fasbinder 's film i 've seen ... i 've heard that he 's a genius of mise-en-scene , but i 've seen student films with more attention , inspiration , idea , and craft than this ... this ... .
this nothing .
it has nothing !
each and every shot is too long .
there 's so much emptiness in them ... the acting 's horrible .
you can see the actors had no preparation at all , no understanding of their roles , not even an attempt at showing emotions ... it 's so ... superficial ... the lines are so explicative that you could removed 90 % of them and still have the same crappy film .
tempo ?
who cares about it .
atmosphere , dynamics , that 's for pussies !
one shot per scene , 80 % of the time people staring unrealistically , having no idea how to represent emotions and importance of the moment besides hollow staring at the camera or one another ... editing ?
all rules of editing have been disregarded with no pa pay-off of any kind ... photography ?
half of the shots have reflection in them , and crappy lighting with no stylization of any kind .
shadows , play of shadows ... who needs that ?
we need a guy pissing , drinking , hitting his wife like he 's ... like he 's acting .
we need a bunch of close ups of a not-so-beautiful woman ... we need an amateurish climax of his capture by an unconvincing arabian torturer ... this film has so much wrongs that it is n't worth the no-budget it had.frankly , i have n't seen a film this bad since american pie 5. yup .
that bad.i 've just started watching his `` veronica foss '' movie , which seems much better , based on the first 15 minutes ( since it does have a hint of directing and artistic idea , unlike this crap ) , so i wo n't argue that fasbinder 's clueless ... .
but this ... .
this film sucks !