man with the screaming brain is a story of greed , betrayal and revenge in the a small bulgarian town .
william cole , wealthy industrialist , winds up with part of his brain replaced by that of a russian cab driver yegor .
the two could n't be more different , but they share one thing - both were killed by the same woman .
brought back to life by a mad scientist , william and yegor form an unlikely partnership to track down their common nemesis.bruce campbell returns to the b horror movie genre that gave him his cult status , this time not only in front of the screen , but behind the lens .
unfortunately for this time around , the laughs do n't deliver and campbell has to resort to what he does best to try and fill the gap in this film.as a fan of campbell , who has the movies , the books and the action figures , i was hoping for another hit to add to my collection .
although , after seeing this film before the purchase , i am glad that i do n't have the `` pleasure '' of adding it.the film first goes wrong in the story , which at first sight , seems like harmless fun but turns out to be boring drawn out dribble .
which is a sad thing to say because it was written by mr. campbell himself .
the comedy never really hits , it only makes us scratch our heads .
it seems that campbell ran out of things that are funny and resulted in giving the audience what we 've already seen ... him fighting himself.ted raimi , the brother of evil dead director sam raimi , is undoubtedly the highlight of the film .
he brings a freshness to it and an entertaining time when the film really needs it .
it helps if you are a fan and have been following these stooges from evil dead to xena , which is why i felt compelled to like this film.campbell 's experience as a director , from directing episodes of the tv series hercules is apparent .
campbell makes the film work well enough , even with the low-budget .
in the end , there are n't as many things going for this as one would hope for , but the fans of campbell will stick behind it no matter what , unfortunately for this fan ... i wo n't .