i just saw this movie last night at a midnight sneak preview screening ( i work for an independent theatre chain in colorado - it 's one of the perks ) ... i 'm sorry , but this is one of the worst movies i 've ever seen !
i know that there are some bruce campbell fanatics out there who ( like star wars die-hards ) will string you up from the nearest tree if you dare speak any ill of their beloved cinematic icon ... nevertheless , campbell-teers , this particular work from the chin is a celluloid black hole.before you make any assumptions that i 'm some hoity-toity film buff who only watches `` real '' movies like `` ladies in lavender '' and `` sideways '' , think again - i 'm a huge fan of b-movies , and bruce campbell in particular .
his trademark character ash is one of my favorites , and his portrayal of the aging elvis in bubba ho-tep was phenomenal.but hey , b-movies still have the potential to be reeeeally , reeeeally bad ( and not in that `` good '' campy way we all love ) ... and that 's what watching this particular one was like for me and my fellow co-workers .
with the exception of that one tracking shot where bruce runs through the square and scares the kids , there were no laughs to be had .
overall , we found the story to be mind-numbingly stoopid , the pacing mollasses-like , and the so-called humor dumber than a bag of hammers .
( i 'm sorry , but ted raimi 's `` pavel '' character was not comic relief ... he was just plain retarded ! )
believe me , we all went into this really wanting to like it , but left feeling incredibly disappointed and robbed of two hours.if you absolutely loved this movie , plan to see it multiple times , want to marry and have kids with it , etc.
, that 's fantastic - we all like what we like , so you get no judgement from me .
but do n't go questioning the sense of humor or fan loyalty of those who are n't having multiple orgasms over campbell 's latest cinematic coupe .
this flick was a steaming turd sandwich in my humble opinion ... and as a true campbell fan , i 'm allowed to say that !