as a bruce campbell fan for nearly two decades , i was thrilled to have an opportunity to see his latest film on the big screen with the man himself in attendance .
unfortunately , `` man with the screaming brain '' was itself a disappointment.set in bulgaria -- where the sci-fi channel makes its saturday night original films -- '' man with the screaming brain '' is a curious mix of '50s b-movie horror , body-switching comedy , violent revenge flick , and overdone slapstick with a touch of romantic reconciliation .
if that does n't make sense , well , neither does `` man with the screaming brain . ''
campbell plays a pharmaceutical company ceo who visits bulgaria with his estranged wife in an inexplicable attempt to invest in the former communist country 's half-finished subway system .
the two fall in with a former kgb agent turned cab driver , and all three ultimately meet their demise at the hands of a vengeful gypsy woman.a local scientist ( stacy keach ) and his goofy assistant ( ted raimi ) , who have developed a technique to allow tissue transplants without the possibility of rejection , steal the bodies and place a portion of the cab driver 's brain into campbell 's damaged skull .
also , they put his wife 's brain into a robotic body they just happen to have at hand.campbell escapes , and with a hastily-restitched skull and the voice of the cab driver -- whose transplanted brain tissue controls the left side of his body -- echoing in his head , sets off to find and kill the gypsy .
( his robot wife does the same . )
but first , there 's an attempt to emulate steve martin/lily tomlin 's `` all of me '' when campbell 's two personalities battle for dominance over a restaurant dinner .
just as he was playing his own evil hand in `` evil dead ii , '' campbell is adept at making his body appear to be inhabited by more than one mind.at times , `` screaming '' comes closest to another steve martin film , `` the man with two brains , '' as it also takes a silly approach to '50s sci-fi clichés .
however , it tries too hard for too little result , and that goes double for ted raimi 's semi-comprehensible bulgarian oaf , who gets entirely too much screen time .
( nothing against raimi , it 's just that he 's better in smaller doses . )
in the end , it 's neither outrageous ( or funny ) enough to satisfy as a spoof , nor is it serious enough to enjoy as a b-movie pastiche .
i was glad that campbell had already left the screening by the time it ground to a halt , as i feared having to say , `` gee , bruce , that was really ... something .
`` perhaps the best praise i can give it as a film is that at least the images stuck to the emulsion .
and it was twice as good as `` alien apocalypse . ''