i love the so-called `` blaxploitation '' films and have seen dozens .
some , such as cotton comes to harlem , shaft and hammer have excellent production values and are very entertaining , while many others are very cheap and silly , but still entertaining , such as brotherhood of death or coffey .
however , dolemite manages something rare for the genre -- it 's just cheap and silly and not the least bit entertaining !
it 's like blaxploitation made for very , very stupid people.years ago , i saw a takeoff on the dolemite films on `` mad tv '' and unfortunately , the real dolemite is n't any better .
like the parody , the acting is just atrocious .
rudy ray moore has all the charm and charisma of a piece of balsa wood .
he can barely read his lines and his `` karate '' is a joke -- with his kicks obviously missing the target again and again .
as for the rest of the actors , many might be even worse .
my favorite was the fbi guy who could n't even remember his lines and really struggled to get them out -- yet they did n't even bother to re-film these scenes !
in fact , so much of it was inept that i had a hard time figuring out whether the film was intended as a joke.if you think that despite horrible acting and action that there is something worth seeing about this film , you 're wrong .
even for the perverts out there hoping to see some skin , will be disappointed .
the naked women in the film really do look like hard-luck prostitutes and there 's nothing remotely sexy about their sagging bodies .
i think looking at old people naked -- reeeaally old people naked -- is no worse than looking at these `` ladies '' .
and as for rudy ray , he has `` man boobs '' .
no black super-hero or anti-hero should look that bad naked !
!
for goodness sakes , put on your clothes people and come up with a script that does n't look like it was written by winos !
!
!
fyi -- apparently , there are actually sequels to this film !
!
i ca n't imagine watching them , so you 'll just have to find someone else to review them .
i have watched plan 9 from outer space , teenagers from outer space and robot monster , but i just do n't think i can bring myself to see another dolemite film -- they are that bad !