`` dolemite '' is the touching story of dolemite ( got ta love blaxploitation film titles ) , an ex-con who probably should still be in jail .
he gets in trouble with cops , friends , drug dealers , women , prostitutes , and society in general .
he 's just not that likable a guy .
neither is the movie , though it 's still hilarious and worth watching.the flimsy premise is that dolemite ( played with as much enthusiasm as star rudy ray moore can muster ) is in jail for a crime he claims he did n't commit .
when a drug hit or a drug bust or drug something is about to go down , the warden releases him to stop it , or help it , or just watch it .
not very clear .
all i know is that i was unaware that the justice system frees convicts in order to allow them to prove their own innocence .
my ignorance , i guess.the plot is convoluted and unimportant , basically dolemite goes around killing people ( usually with very poorly choreographed karate ) , having sex , and cursing out people , sometimes even rhyming too .
the joys of the movie are its total incompetence , and its total indifference in the matter.i stopped counting the number of times i saw the boom mike after it was in one scene for the entire duration ( about two minutes of film ) .
i stopped questioning why the warden was looking down at where dolemite was sitting , even after he stood up and walked around , when they cut back to the establishing shot and dolemite was inexplicably sitting down again .
i stopped wondering why dolemite dressed like that when he got naked on the street to change , because he did n't want to get in his car with the ugly ( read : normal ) clothes the jail gave him .
and i stopped wondering where he learned karate when he jiggles his hand on a guy 's stomach and somehow cuts him open .
the only time i was ever remotely nervous and tense was when the disgusting , flabby white mayor is walking around totally naked with nothing but a towel hanging around his neck which just barely covers him up .
you keep saying `` cut away ... cut away ... cut away '' but by the time they do , you are already emotionally scarred.the movie is ridiculous in every way imaginable .
moore as dolemite , is either funny , cool , or both .
if you 're on the lookout for a bad movie , you have found it with `` dolemite . ''