contains spoilersbut if you were n't dropped on the head as a child and then used as a football then you 'll agree with me that this is one of the worst and yet hilarious series ever made .
centreing round a woman who as a young girl was beaten by her father who also killed her mother , she spends her time drawing , but wait for it , then she becomes her superhero drawings and goes on to fight crime , therefore being `` drawn by pain '' , so clever .
the story itself is actually ok , but it 's just how it 's done , jesse the writer and director has no idea how to write a script , just listen to a monologue featuring the 8 year old version of the hero and it sounds like it was written by a 30 year old man , while her dad , who sports a great moustache , just walks around the house all day while looking angry , just showing how bad the characterisation is , especially the bit where he gets angry in the first episode and begins repeating the phrase `` no more '' while holding his wife 's head before killing her using the marble work surface .
the following bang sound effect and just his terrible acting as all he can convey is angry just is brilliant , including after where he goes to beat his daughter using his belt which is all done with him moaning and looking angry in slow motion .
the episodes themselves could contain easily a good clean script ranging over 5 minutes , but oh no jesse does n't want this .
little jesse , is shitting out post modernism as if he 'd just eaten donnie darko and then douched himself to death .
pointless camera jerks , all at weird angles , overly repeated lines and even pointless sequences just muddled up every now and again to fill the overlong episodes .
in conclusion the idea is n't bad it 's just how it 's done , also there is a great character of a fat guy on a bench who does n't come up enough and is great , i just wan na hug his lil chubby cheeks cause they look so soft .
the character development is non existent as the main character just says the first philosophical sounding thing that comes to her head although they all contradict one another .
but all in all , mainly s**tindiana jones 4 however is much better , type `` jeeharv '' into you-tube as well , the results may make you weep at the beauty of the world also you 'll hear a lot of cheap sex jokes , mostly gay ones .