you have to acknowledge cimino 's contribution to cinema .
he gave us both the most over-rated film in history ( the deer hunter ) and the worst film in history ( heaven 's gate ) .
and before you start with the 'it 's bad but not the worst ever ' let me explain .
for 20+ years i listened to the critics and avoided `` heaven 's gate '' -actually this was not hard because you are hardly bombarded with opportunities to view this film .
then a few days after seeing the 'final cut : the making and unmaking of heaven 's gate ' documentary i stumbled on a used $ 9.99 dvd of the long version .
my advice after 229 minutes is to seek out the most negative review ever written about this film ( you will find a wide selection ) , and imagine that the reviewer is cimino 's devoted mother and that she is doing everything she can to put a positive slant on her dear son 's movie .
then you will have an idea of just how big a mess cimino made.while pretty much everything is wrong with this film , what ultimately tips the scale to make it the worse ever ( and a classic 'less than zero ' example ) is its shameless distortion of history .
although the cattlemen 's association did send a group of regulators/gunmen to johnson county and did have a list of targeted names , the actual facts of an interesting historical event are hopelessly exaggerated .
on the morning of april 9 , 1892 , nick ray and nate champion were besieged and eventually killed by an army of about 50 cattlemen and texas hired guns who had come to johnson county to clean out `` rustlers . ''
the citizens of the county then besieged the regulators who finally were arrested ( or rescued ) by the army .
women did not actively participate in the fighting and aside from ray and champion there were minimal casualties .
after all , these were sieges not assaults-and there were not wagons of immigrants riding in circles around the encampment of regulations ( early westerns to the contrary this was a film making device and not an actual tactic of the indians ) .
and weeks prior to the arrival of the regulators a number of johnson county residents were hanged without trial including jim averell , the keeper of a modest road ranch , and his wife ella watson ( who cimino resurrects as his two leads and he even shows averell living to a ripe old age ) .
there is no movie-making sin greater than fictionalizing history , if you are going to play fast and loose with historical facts , then change the names and locations to protect the unsuspecting audience members who might go away from a film believing what they saw actually happened .
fortunately so few people saw this film that the damage was minimal .
perhaps it is harsh to blame cimino for his distortion of history .
he could probably escape blame anyway with an insanity defense-the film provides plenty of support .
if cimino was insane during the production of heaven 's gate it would explain a lot of things .
but my vote goes to 'lack of directing talent ' instead of insanity.there are some good things about heaven 's gate .
you can actually see on the screen where some of the huge budget went ; expensive sets-beautiful epic camera shots-artful dance sequences .
isabelle huppert ( a strange casting choice that actually worked ) gives an agreeable and likable performance although most of her scenes are extremely boring ( that tends to happen when the director forgets to give the viewer any reason to care about the characters ) .
the dialogue is generally solid if rather ordinary.but do n't fall for the crap that this film experiments with storytelling by intermixing carefully crafted moments of character interaction with textured pageant-like explosions of communal action .
this implies that there was a method to cimino madness .
'experiments ' is another word for when a filmmaker gets so lost in his project that a coherent story is no longer possible .
the simple fact is that there is no evidence cimino storyboarded a single scene or made any attempt at control or organization .
what it looks like is that he just turned his dp loose to stage action and to get an endless selection of colorful shots-1.5 million feet of loosely staged scenes .
then he tried ( without success ) to pare this down and fit everything together in post-production .
the final battle scene is genuinely hilarious as babushka wearing townswomen ( perhaps borrowed from a 'fiddler on the roof ' touring company ) throw countless sticks of dynamite at the regulators .
unfortunately each explosive falls just short of the target and explodes harmlessly .
after you see this happen 50-60 times you can relate to the woman ( the one who looks like something out of 'the grapes of wrath ' ) who puts a huge gun in her mouth and pulls the trigger .
this is probably what cimino 's mother did after writing that review.so believe what you have been hearing about this film since 1980. it is a sloppy , disconnected , poorly paced , and historically distorted mess .
of value only as a 'how not to make a film ' example for film historians and as a source of amusement to those knowledgeable about the actual history of the american west .