the director spent a lot of time making the scenes look real right down to the historical photos and all the sounds of the old west bustle .
too bad the producers and writer/director , michael cimino , spent zero time on any of the historical facts of what the johnson county war was really about .
a lot of the war was over how public lands should be used for grazing .
the cattlemen did n't want the poor sheep herders on the land to compete for forage on this cold , windswept plateau .
the entire epic makes no mention of grazing sheep which was one of the most important reasons for the war.the worst scene is the battle between the peasants and the hired killers .
the peasants are shown circling the gunmen like a bunch of indians would do in much earlier hollywood movies .
the true fact is that johnson county sheriff william ( red ) angus , with a posse of 200 to 300 men , intercepted the gunmen and trapped them in a barn at the ta ranch .
i doubt any women took part in the siege .
ellen ( ella also known as cattle kate ) watson and her second husband , james averell , were hanged by a lynch mob about three years before the johnson county invasion .
ella was never a prostitute .
this was a canard spread by the wyoming stock growers association ( wsga ) in order to discredit her .
the fact that the plot makes her out to be a brothel madam only serves the interests of the wsga.i object to the use of names of real people in a plot that is so obviously fiction .
there is no fact in the events , time lines , or backgrounds of the characters .
why michael cimino would use real names of people who were loosely connected with the johnson county war ( and events leading up to it ) is beyond me.the movie could have been much more interesting if it had dwelt on the political ramifications of the federal government intervention in a state government 's affairs and what happened after the wsga gunmen were saved by the calvary .
some effort was made to prosecute the cattlemen who were responsible by the johnson county attorney .
but since johnson county could not afford the court costs and the governor of wyoming , amos w. barber , backed the wsga , the charges were eventually dropped.overall i think the movie was just an excuse to show isabelle huppert naked for much of the three and 3/4 hours of running time on the dvd version .