now infamous western that was ( at its time ) the biggest budgeted disaster in hollywood history .
i was `` lucky '' enough to see the full 220 minute version at a theatre in 1990. it was truly staggering how bad the film was !
they had a great cast , a story based on a true incident ( a fight between foreigners and americans in the 1800s ) , magnificent scenery ... so what went wrong ?
three words -- director michael cimino .
he was so full of himself after `` the deer hunter '' he went out and made this god awful western .
he 's not totally to blame .
his previous film `` the deer hunter '' was considered a masterpiece and united artists gave him free reign to do anything .
they let him all alone ... and everything went wrong .
the cost went barreling out of control and cimino insisted on redoing sequences again and again until they were perfect.first off , the sound is horrible .
entire sequences go by and you ca n't make out a word the characters are saying .
for instance , jeff bridges ' character is introduced during a dance sequence , but i still have no idea who he was !
the dialogue in his introductory scene is incomprehensible !
that 's the director 's fault -- he should have made sure the dialogue could be heard .
some scenes are shot with so much dust flying around you can barely make out what 's going on .
the story line does n't make a whole lot of sense and cimino took great liberties with the facts -- in the real story only one person was killed -- cimino turns it into a massacre .
there is some admittedly beautiful sequences here totally destroyed by lack of story and incomprehensible dialogue .
also the bad sound was not the fault of the theatre -- all the prints sound that way.this garbage effectively closed down united artists and was the end of cimino 's career .
a textbook example of a director so full of himself he does n't realize what he 's doing .
jeff bridges has said this is the worst movie he ever did .
this is from a guy who made `` tron '' !
a definite must-miss.there is a pretty good book called `` the final cut '' which details the whole disaster .
this gets a 1. i wish imdb had negative numbers -- this deserves it !