this is the movie that , pretty much , sounded the death knell for the auteur in hollywood .
at over 40 million bucks , heaven 's gate is so poorly conceived and executed it would take a lifetime to break down every area of failure .
what really galls me the most about it is that technically it 's very bad , an unforgivable sin for the money that went into it .
john hurt 's commencement speech at harvard is inaudible , as is a conversation between kris kristofferson and richard masur at the train station .
some people seem to think cimino intended this as a `` style '' .
he did n't .
it 's just bad sound recording .
the characters are not particularly well-drawn , except for the four or five leads ; in the climactic battle scene , it 's difficult to tell who 's the bad guys and who 's the good guys .
even on that level , it 's impossible to enjoy the movie .
the casting of isabelle huppert as the town madam is a joke , her french accent renders the whole character a fraud .
the acting is generally stiff , without any range or depth of feeling ; even christopher walken is bad .
john hurt 's character is the only one with any swagger or vitality ( although hurt , in his 40s , playing a fresh-faced harvard grad with bags under his eyes is patently ridiculous ) .
i guess to say that it 's overlong is overkill .
the roller-skating sequence could have been easily cut , the cockfight scene is rapidly becoming a movie cliche , and the final scene on board the ocean liner is right out the twilight zone .
having rod serling appear before the camera at the end to explain what we just watched would have been the perfect finale .
actually , those scenes in and of themselves are not bad , but cimino has not earned the right to include them , because what he 's given us as the `` meat '' of the picture is so incompetently bad .
the editing is poor , especially in the grand battle climax .
at one point , the same explosion with the same wagon wheel flying from the blast is used three different times .
i wish could i say something- anything- nice about this movie : a great scene , a great performance , even one memorable line of dialogue , but i ca n't .
it is all just one big unholy mess .
about the only thing i did like was the cinematography and the montana locations , which are stunning .
even cimino could n't screw that up .
this is a long , boring , bad movie by all standards .
and the people who say that it gets bashed only because of the cost overruns are just kidding themselves .
1/2 * out of 4