i watched the 219 minute version and have to say that dollar-for-dollar , it it probably one of the worst films ever .
now i am not saying it 's the worst film ever -- but if you look at a ratio of cost over how much an average person would enjoy it , this is a very , very bad film.i would say that the single biggest factor making this a bad film is the writer/director , michael cimino .
rarely can so much blame be placed on a single person .
had he not been so self-indulgent , a film just as bad could have easily been made at about 90 minutes -- saving the studio millions !
the film begins with a completely unnecessary prologue that 's supposed to be set at harvard .
the scene is huge but completely without context .
you have no idea exactly what is occurring nor do you know why the students ( in particular , john hurt ) are behaving so boorishly .
i find it very hard to imagine a commencement going like this in 1870 -- and it looks a lot more like 1970. this is a half hour where you have no idea what is happening , who the characters are or their motivations .
the next scene is 20 years later .
inexplicably , the two harvard grads ( hurt and kris kristofferson ) are in wyoming .
so , they went to the best school in america and now one is only a law man in the middle of no where and the other is ... .well , what is john hurt in the film ?
!
?
!
he just appears here and there and seems to be either a jerk ( the prologue ) or a pathetic and pointless drunk who hangs out with murderers -- even though he is apparently against them !
?
his entire character made no sense .
they never explained why he was a brit living in the middle of nowhere ( it was impossible to hide his accent ) , why he bothered to come along with the hired army if he was so against their wicked plan nor why he would risk his life for a cause he did n't believe in at all .
as for kristofferson , his excellent acting and better defined character made his character more believable , though having him move to wyoming and risk his life for a prostitute made no sense at all.this brings up the worst aspect of heaven 's gate .
while the scenes are way too long and needed trimming , the worst part of the film is that the characters were like cardboard .
john hurt ( a wonderful actor with nothing to do in the film ) , jeff bridges and many other big names are there but you have no idea why .
in fact , other than kristofferson , isabelle huppert ( as a hooker with a heart of gold -- quite the cliché ) and perhaps christopher walken , everyone is completely one-dimensional .
it 's hard to imagine a movie this long where you do n't know or understand the characters .
much of the film also seems anachronistic .
who would have thought to have a giant roller rink constructed in the middle of no where in 1890 ?
i am sure that just getting the basic supplies in this region in the west would have been very , very difficult -- and yet we are expected to believe that trains filled with roller skates and lumber arrived instead of food .
maybe if they had n't spent a bazillion dollars building and frequenting the roller rink , the farmers could have afforded to buy food and avoided this war over purloined cattle !
!
!
and what 's with the guy on roller skates with the fiddle ?
what did this have to do with a land war ?
the most obvious problem you are left with is that it 's a film where very , very little actually happens until the big battle late in the film .
there are lots of scenes of filth and flat nothingness .
so much nothingness that by the time the battle occurs , many audience members would have left or are now so hostile to the film that it 's inevitable that nothing could salvage the film.as for the final battle , it was done reasonably well but had problems .
first , this minor skirmish on the prairie lasted longer than the d-day invasion !
!
second , while details of the actual events of the so-called `` johnson county war '' are a tad sketchy , we do know that the characters played by huppert and kristofferson never actually were there , as they 'd both been hung before the battle .
third , i ca n't believe that cimino actually killed animals throughout the film -- especially during the final battle .
while i am far from a bleeding heart about animal rights , his need to use animal guts and actually kill some of the horses is a low point in cinematic history .
watching and knowing that some of the horses died to achieve cimino 's `` vision '' for the film is very sad.finally , after the big battle , we have an epilogue .
while it is blessedly short , it also seemed completely unnecessary and vague .
we see kristofferson on a fancy yacht , so we can assume that he 's finally putting some of that harvard education to work for himself .
we also see a woman who appears to be one that kris looked at a couple times during the prologue .
most importantly , nothing is said and you have no idea what the final outcome .
i read up on it myself and found that the film often got the facts wrong.overall , to say the film is long and needed tons more editing was like saying wwii was a `` minor tiff '' .
well , i 've certainly seen a lot worse , but if you factor in the cost of production , i truly think it might just be one of the worst films in history.finally , when a film has this much explicit nudity i warn parents .
however , as no child could sit through this film ( even with a promise of sex ) , the warning is not necessary .