attention , possible spoilersthis film is so lousy that it actually becomes funny .
the director has put in all the clichés that have ever plagued b-series movies .
the stupid bimbo ( nice rack ) getting caught again and again by the bad guys , chief villain smirky and revealing his plots before they happen so they can be ruined and who , of course , bullied/killed the hero 's father in an unclear past , a side-kick in the person of a policeman - small , bald and whose only preparation for the last battle ( another cliché ) is returning his baseball-cap rim-backwards etc .
the film 's end really tops it .
after the chief villain dies when the hero paralised stoneface jack or whatever throws him from the roof of a building ten stories high , they walk out of the building .
which , from the exteriors , looks three stories high only and very much like your regular city hall .
when they exit the building , the side-kick ca n't walk , being that his right leg appears to be wounded .
how , nobody can tell : ten minutes earlier he fell down shot in his shoulder and his feet were fine .
there is no further explanation for the inquisitive mind of the viewer who would be curious to know such trivial things as `` where is the villain 's body which should lay near the building ? ''
and `` why is there no police or even curious folks gathered round the said body ? ''
.
i could go on forever with the list .
why does another one of the bad guys claim to have invented martial arts when he gets his ass kicked in no time ?
why do bad guys in general make silly movements when attacking ?
why does the hero look so faggy ?
is there anyone really thinking `` yes , these characters and this plot makes this a film to remember '' ?
and the actors suck .
our hero and saviour of the day wears the same expression on his face .
the whole film .
that disgusted-trying to be cocky smirk must be some copyrighted feat of him.also , thinking that until now 12 % of the people having rated this film gave it a 10 makes me full of fear inside .
they might have been serious and then we 're doomed .