one of the last surviving horror screen greats - conrad radzoff - dies and has his body placed in a mausoleum with televised-before-death snippets of the great conrad greeting you as you visit .
unfortunately for him and his captors , conrad 's body is `` borrowed '' by a gang of four boys and three girls and taken to a huge manor where they drink with him , toast him , dance with him , laugh with and at him , and then put him to bed in a casket which just happens to by lying in a room upstairs .
news of the missing body reaches radzoff 's widow and her friend ( who happens to be proficient in the black arts ) and she holds some kind of ceremony that brings conrad back to life so he can , in his own words , get `` an eye for an eye , a tooth for a tooth . ''
well , frightmare is an interesting `` bad '' film .
sure , it is cheap .
the sets look like they were borrowed ( which i am sure they were ) .
the special effects and blood and guts are done liberally and with little credibility .
the acting is average to below average with a few exceptions .
jeffrey combs of re-animator fame is in tow , but really he does little in this rather thankless role as a horror obsessed teen that needs to steal a dead man 's body for kicks .
none of the `` kids '' except the pretty girl playing meg is any good .
nita talbot plays the `` friend '' of the radzoffs with withering interest .
also , look for the big - i mean big - guy that plays the policeman .
that is porky himself of porkys fame .
but thankfully for all of us , one performance does rise above the material .
ferdy mayne , an oft overlooked actor from germany who had christopher lee features and did star as a vampire in the fearless vampire killers , does a more than commendable job as the aging horror icon in public life and a real demon of a man in private life .
conrad radzoff in a bad human being in life , living solely for his own pleasures and we see him kill twice before he is even dead ( obviously none of the swinging teens at that point ) .
mayne is able to look very regal , speak very elegantly , and convey menace with ease .
if for no other reason , one should see frightmare for his performance .
i do ; however , believe that when they showed black and white clips of radzoff that they used christopher lee footage ( anyone have any thoughts ? )
.
anyway , one can guess what happens and it does indeed : radzoff goes out and goes after the kids that disturbed his peace .
again , the formula is trite and overused .
the acting for the most part is anemic , and the direction oh so ridiculous .
but mayne gives a good performance in a sea of ineptitude .
definitely worth a little peek .
watching mayne keep popping up on screens in his mausoleum brought a wry smile to my lips each time .