among the many accolades here for this production , there was one individual whose comments asked if he/she were the only one ( who was n't that enthralled by it ) - i.e .
giving this film 3 stars .
however , the comment went on to indicate an overall liking of the story , and other production of same .
well , this person is n't the `` only one , '' who did n't like this production ( include me ! )
but there i part company even with him/her .
if you put a gun to my head and asked me to make a choice between your shooting me or watching this flick again , i 'd watch it , certainly - but i 'd probably spend 10 seconds thinking about it .
i 'd much prefer being locked into solitary confinement , or having to watch paint dry on a wall , though .
further , i would n't want to see this story again , anytime , anywhere , or in any alternative presentation .
sometimes you feel like comedian george gobel 's `` pair of brown shoes when the rest of the world is a tuxedo , '' and this is one of those for me .
i liked angela lansbury in a favorite movie of mine , `` long hot summer , '' and while not a huge fan of the show , enjoyed `` murder , she wrote . ''
but here -- i not only did n't care for the story or other aspects , but i found angela 's squealing , squawking , singing , and everything else about her over-the-top performance , perhaps the most annoying presence in any movie ( or presentation in any other media ) i 've ever experienced .
it was like an unending continuation of audrey hepburn 's equally `` over-the top '' cockney chortling at rex harrison - in the earlier portions of `` my fair lady . ''
but that was incident to the plot , presented for light , comedic effect , and ( mercifully ) brief .
unmercifully , this was anything but brief , and to me seemed as if it had gone-on for about 10 hours ( einstein 's layman 's explanation of `` relativity '' at work . )
if i had n't been with friends , with the necessity to remain , my viewing would have been brief .
i laughed , though , at the `` seinfeld '' episode where elaine pisses everyone off because she tells them how much she disliked `` the english patient . ''
my friends somewhat regarded me the same way when i interrupted their waxing ecstatically over this movie .
give me some dragging fingernails loudly over a chalk board anytime instead .