i finally got hold of a dvd copy of this production and was agog with curiosity , since i had read so many people praising it to the skies , particularly angela lansbury 's portrayal of mrs. lovett .
i saw the tim burton movie a few months ago and thought it over the top and overly bloody ; thankfully this version is not so horrifying gory but it suffers dramatically in too many other ways for it to be in the least satisfying to me.to begin with , the casting .
george hearn is adequate and at least shows some expression ( as opposed to johnny depp 's unending wooden face in the movie ) .
angela lansbury is , quite simply , annoying .
at least she has enough power in her voice to get the point across as opposed to helena bonham carter 's piping and expressionless little girl 's voice , but subtlety seems to be only a word in the dictionary to ms. lansbury .
one can not be drawn into the story when one of the main characters spends her entire time mugging and winking in a `` look , ma , i 'm acting ! ''
fashion and being far too aware of the audience .
this is not something that is typical of stage productions , heaven knows -- i have been a regular attendee of many productions at the stratford festial for many years and stage actors do not behave in that fashion as a rule ( at least those who want to continue to find regular employment do not ! )
... betsy joslyn .
oh dear , oh dear , oh dear .
did anybody besides me notice that she ca n't sing this role even vaguely appropriately ?
and her playing george hearn 's daughter is just creepy , considering that she was married to him at the time .
is n't she supposed to be a sweet little sixteen-year-old ?
yes , i realize that this is what acting is all about , but not once did she convince me that she was any younger than about thirty-five , and the phrase `` mutton dressed as lamb '' seems to have been coined just for her .
her butchering of `` green finch and linnet bird '' had me gnashing my teeth and ready to turn off the dvd player at once .
that song was done so well in tim burton 's movie , and this was a sad shock .
the song requires the vocal range of julie andrews in the 1960 's and a purity of voice that is only comparable to that of a boy soprano .
any vibrato at all kills it dead , and ms. joslyn spent the entire time warbling so hard that i thought she was about to fall off of her ladder because she was trembling so much from the effort at sustaining coloratura notes with a voice that is a mezzo at best .
let us pass over the spectacle of her vibrating at least a quarter tone flat on at least three of the higher notes ... this is quite simply not a coloratura role and perhaps a discerning director should have told her that -- but the fact that she was married to the star might possibly have tied the director 's hands.cris groenendaal was adequate , but again obviously far too old for the role and there is zero chemistry between him and ms. joslyn , which makes the whole subplot fall completely flat .
i am reminded a little of past stage productions of wagner 's ring cycle where , due to the vocal power required for the singers to bellow over the sound of a full wagnerian orchestra they would have to cast based upon ability to penetrate vocally as opposed to any appearance or acting ability or even a good voice , which is why you have the caricature of the massive mountainous viking-horned brunehilde with a triple chin and a beard , when the libretto calls for an ethereal beauty who is eternally young and bewitching .
the casting of the `` juvenile '' leads is exactly like that -- if you close your eyes you can almost believe in mr. groenendaal 's anthony , but as soon as you look at the screen the illusion is shattered .
( and at no time can you ever believe in ms. joslyn 's johanna ... ) for me , the rest of the production was completely lost because of three out of the four major characters were so obviously miscast .
i can not give a proper review of anything else because they were so distracting that they spoiled the rest of the production .
i really ca n't understand why people rave about this badly-shot and self-conscious filming of a stage play .
surely there 's more to camera work in the theatre than just plunking a camera down in the front row ?
if i want that , i 'll go to a decent play , preferably at the stratford festival , where at least they work together for the production and are n't constantly mugging for the camera .
i give it three stars only because the quality of the production apart from the antics of lansbury and joslyn seems adequate if not spectacular.probably the best thing one can do is buy the soundtrack of the film and a cast recording of this play , and then combine the two to make a bearable whole .
that 's what i 'm going to do , and try to forget that i ever bothered to rent this wholly unremarkable production .