cybrog 2 : glass shadow stars elias koteas as colton hicks ( rhymes with kicks ! )
a karate instructor who helps a cash ( jolie ) escape from pinwheel , her creators who look to detonate her and destroy a rival company .
along the way billy drago and karen shepherd show up to displace the duo , while jack palance is there to deliver guidance to the duo on the run .
one of the things that is quite shocking about the cyborg franchise , is how the series has managed to have quite prolific and off beat actors in the cast .
the original had jean-claude van damme and dayle haddon ( do n't know her ?
well she was in a bunch of 70 's pornos ) this one has jack palance , elias koteas , billy drago and angelina jolie .
the third one has william katt , zach galligan and malcom mcdowell .
( okay so , cyborg 3 's cast is n't that impressive . )
i 've never seen cyborg 3 , but i did see this on sci-fi channel and must admit i was n't impressed .
actually strike that , cyborg 2 is an often lovely looking movie , it 's shot with excellent style and the visual detail make this easy on the eye .
however cyborg 1 was the same way , indeed the movie was directed with a certain amount of style , slow motion and music that made it all easy on the eye .
unfortunately like the first , this one does n't have any new ideas or anything resembling a plot or texture .
most of the ideas are taken from blade runner and max headroom , so for various reasons the movie does n't have much to offer beyond it 's look .
another aspect is the terrible acting .
karen shepherd and billy drago are absolutely terrible and angelina jolie is n't much better .
elias koteas and jack palance come off fine but seriously palance is playing a cyborg warrior and koteas is a karate instructor .
i guess on the positive side you ca n't accuse michael schroeder of not being ambitious with casting .
still the movie is dull and i for one lost interest in the story fifteen minutes in .
also why did they tie it in with cyborg anyway ?
it has nothing to do with it 's predecessor , which this manages to be worse than .
* out of 4- ( bad )