this movie is a cyborg in and of itself : half nonsense/half lifetime original movie.as a cyborg , this movie has but one objective : to make you wish that you had spent the duration of the film in a dark room punching yourself in the testicles.unlike many people , i did not rent this movie because of angelina jolie ( i 'll explain why i rented it shortly ) .
i am not a big fan of ms. jolie 's , though i will say that her performance was stellar !
her blank stare and robotic acting really did have me believing that she was an android hooker .
if anyone has a clip of her on 'inside the actor 's studio ' explaining how she prepared for this role , please send it my way .
i 'll make sure to use it when i try james lipton for crimes against integrity.so what drove me to rent this movie ?
one would think that it was the hope of seeing angelina jolie 's nipples , but it was n't .
no , the reason behind this rental rested solely on one of the images on the cover of the dvd ; that of jack palance 's face !
half of his face was robotic !
when i saw that , i imagined legions of `` palances '' slowly marching through a fiery wasteland , laying waste to any humans that were foolish enough to resist .
in my mind 's eye , every member of this unholy army of palances had a red , glowing eye ; a red , glowing eye that looked at humans and saw only `` meat '' .
they were to be the architects of oblivion ... a cold , steely apocalypse ... a nightmare from which humanity would never awaken .
it 's a beautiful image that i will cherish till the end of my years.like most things in my life , the actual movie did not live up to my expectations .
no , there was only 'one ' jack palance , and the only visible cybernetic enhancements that he had were located on his legs .
sadly , those enhancements did n't really `` enhance '' anything .
that is unless , you count walking like a polio victim as a super power .
at least their was a scene where jack -- grinning like a trigger-happy alzheimer 's patient -- got to shoot the hell out of some people .
i was waiting for him to yell , `` i 'm damn tired of paying too much for prescription medication ! ''
unfortunately , any outbursts of geriatric rage were few and far between.what the movie did have an abundance of was a poorly developed love story about a man ( elias koteas , a.k.a .
poor man 's de niro ) and a cyborg ( angelina jolie , a.k.a .
demon spawn of john voigt ) .
oh man , can the love between a romeo of flesh and a juliet of silicon ever be able to last ?
!
?
!
?
!
it can if you follow jack palance 's simple advice : `` you have to taste each other 's time '' .yeah , i 'm not sure what that means .
however , i am sure that i do not want jack palance to be the one to explain it to me .
i sure as heck do n't want him to show me !
as an experiment , i suggest that you ask your significant other if he/she `` thinks that we have reached a level in our relationship where we can begin to taste each other 's time ? ''