in 1984 , the karate kid had some charm to it , even if it was little more than a poor man 's rocky .
alas , producer jerry weintraub failed to realize it was best to leave the story at the point where it had ended , and convinced ralph macchio and pat morita to make an extra effort to turn the film into a trilogy .
part iii was the definitive low in the franchise , yet someone must have thought the series still had some potential .
what other explanation could there possibly be for the existence of the next karate kid ?
wait a minute .
next ?
yep , macchio 's gone ( at least he was smart enough to stop eventually ) , and his replacement is hilary swank ( ! )
, playing a troubled teenager ( what else ? )
named julie pierce .
now , the girl has family issues .
she also gets in trouble at school .
said school has a sadistic gym teacher ( michael ironside ) .
as it turns out , though , one of his students is actually a nice guy , and julie falls for him .
this gets her in bigger trouble than before , of course .
lucky for her , she is currently living with mr. miyagi ( morita ) , an old friend of her grandfather who happens to know how to get back at the bad guys.all those factors ad up to seven clichés , and that 's just a generic plot summary - imagine what the detailed scenes must be like !
from beginning to end , the next karate kid is a tired , flat and dull marathon of idiotic lines and set-ups .
swank does , thankfully , have the likes of boys do n't cry and million dollar baby to redeem this disaster , but why did morita accept to come back ?
he may have received an oscar nomination for the first movie , and was quite enjoyable in the sequels , but has nothing to speak for him here - even the revival of the `` wax on , wax off '' gag is stillborn .
as for ironside , he is slightly better than martin kove and thomas ian griffith in part iii , but that 's hardly a stretch.so , is this picture really that awful ?
not exactly .
there is one sequence that manages to achieve a weird beauty , but when the best bit in the whole film involves a group of asian monks dancing as they hear pop music for the first time in their lives , it does n't qualify as a recommendation to see the rest .