i can accept the fact this was the next karate kid so ralph macchio can be happily retired from the series , and while hillary swank is great for the role ... .the plot to the movie is just dreadful.mr .
miyagi 's old buddy from world war 2 dies , leaving his widow to take care of her rebellious grand-daughter when her parents die in an accident .
the girl has no discipline yet is the hero because the local rotc ... which i 'll explain in a minute , has it out to get her .
you know the drill ... miyagi takes her under his wing and in the end they beat the bad guys and everyone lives happily ever after.its hokey , its cheesy , its the 90 's ... .but that 's not even the long and the short of it .
my first case of `` huh ? ''
is why is there a `` military division '' in high school ?
i thought that stuff went out in the 1960 's , especially in a public school .
as much as michael ironside kicks booty in his role as the main heel , since when is military involved in a high school ?
my next gripe is that during the prom scene , the militants bungee jump to scare the crap out of people ... .why ?
the thing i noticed throughout all 4 movies was at the very end the heels suddenly turn face after all the nonsense they put the main character through ( billy in part 1 , sato in part 2 , kreese in part 3 ) .
this movie is no different .
after ned and cronies basically sabotage the senior prom , blow up eric 's car and threaten hillary swank the whole movie ... ..ironside tells them to beat her up and they 're like `` um ... no '' if you 're gon na do pathetic face turns , at least make sure the characters have n't done anything too over the top such as blowing up a hot rod.as for the rest of the love plot between eric and hillary swank ... .corny but nothing to melodramatic , which is a breath of fresh air from the garbage ralph macchio pulled in the first 3 movies.i will say for its own movie , after watching the first 3 movies , i can accept it being more or less a spin off ... but i ca n't accept the whole military thing , way too uncommon for it to be taken seriously .
now if ironside and crew was a wrestling/football team and he was the coach , that would have been more believable.ironside and morita deliver the goods , swank is ok ... the rest are the same as anything , the one highlight is when they blow up the hot rod , that was cool 4 out of 10