the screenplay is the worst part of this film , as it lurches from one premise to the next , missing all the important bits that would have made a number of different stories possible .
( this film is confusing , because the audience does n't know what the story is . )
i had no problem with the low-production values and the acting was n't great , but this is telly , so it was fine .
i do n't mind if some scenes looked like they were done in one take .
but having such a non-sensical screenplay is completely unnecessary .
did any executive actually read it before forking out the cash ?
avoid this at all costs.the prologue in particular was so poorly written , it needed a voice-over to fill in all the details that had been left out .
the prologue was rushed , it was n't clear what was happening , ie .
the russian revolution was reduced to `` some riots are happening in petersburg '' , with the next scene being soldiers arresting them .
i know the basic history of the revolution , so i could fill in the details , `` those pesky communists '' .
the prologue is best ignored.this could have been a thoughtful study of a person who is confused about who she is .
it sets up this premise in the asylum .
it could then have her struggling to identify herself for the rest of the film .
no .
gone .
the film assumes she is who she says she is ( even though there is still no empirical evidence . )
it sets up a melodramatic romance , a love so strong , it 'll believe anything she says .
okay , a soppy romance .
no , because it makes no sense .
the love interest seems like a crazed ( and incidentally , sleazy ) lunatic , bursting out in wild gestures .
this also does n't work , because the film stupidly decides to tell the truth in the monologue at the end .
they never got married and she returned to america .
the love story collapses .
despite there being plenty of love scenes , i was never convinced of the reason that they were in love .
i find rom-com romances more convincing , despite there only being one or two scenes which establish that they 've even spent any time with each other.it could have been a thriller-type thing where the film assumes she is who she says she is , and she struggles to prove her identity .
no , the court case is summed up rather than dealt with .
the bizarre voice over comes back , again to fill in the details of a better film.the funniest thing to consider is what really happened .
anna anderson was a loony who went to america and married another loony and they did crazy things together .
throughout her life , she had bouts of lunatic behaviour .
none of this in the film either .
there 's a really annoying character in the asylum who crops up from nowhere and announces herself as a 'one flew over the cuckoo 's next/'twelve monkeys'-type informant .
thankfully , she vanishes , having brought nothing to the story .