this movie should have been called `` the eyes of alexander '' , and they should have done away with the bogart concept altogether .
the film started out with a lighthearted approach to bogart 's legacy and some comical moments with his surgery oriented face , but after the first 15-30 minutes it morphs into a more serious thriller , where two palm size sapphires , purportedly laid as eyes into a marble headpiece of alexander the great , for him , and seen by him , right before his death .
so the gems are of great value not only because of their quality and size , but also because of the tie to the greatest conquerer the world has ever known .
being an expert on alexander qualifies me to say that this is wholly and completely a fiction , but it makes for a good movie anyway .
so the film winds around some early silliness and stumbles along with all sorts of alexander allusions in both the foreground and background ( which i really liked ) , ending with a dated shark attack ( you could n't go to a movie in '79-'80 without some shark showing up to menace the audience ) .
there is a yacht named euridice ( alexander 's father 's young wife ) , a man named alexander , philip , cleitus ?
, ( it 's been about 5 years since i 've seen the film , so ca n't remember all the details ) , olympias , some street names , and many others .
it was fun to watch the film just to try to catch all the background details that the director ( obviously an alexanderphile himself ) put in .
when all is said and done , the eyes are retrieved and the camera pans in on them on a bed as the credits roll by .
kind of a neat ending .
what would have been more fun would be if they went the indiana jones way and had an action adventure .
there were many , many real artifacts that could have been used to make this more interesting , or instance , the hand-annotated ( by aristotle ) version of the iliad that alexander kept with him all his life , even on his many journeys across asia ( would be of incalculable value if found today ) .
olivia hussey ( my all time favorite b-movie actress ) is killed off way too early , and should have been the main actress throughout , not the girl from the momma 's and the poppa 's ... though she was herself easy on the eyes .
if you can find this flick , it might be worth checking out for the historical stuff and to see olivia hussey in an extremely funny deadpan humor bit early on , but beyond that , i 'd pass on it for something more entertaining.yours , nick