committed doom and gloomer peter watkins goes slummin ' across the pond to take on the american justice system circa 1971 with this priceless piece of zeitgeist paranoia that leans so far left it falls over constantly .
watkins is pure tourist as he assembles this our gang tragedy with cliché freaks , hippies and black revolutionaries pitted against trigger happy cops and military and a kangaroo court tribunal made up of disapproving calcified adults making poor fashion statements .
talk about a revolution.in punishment park we have radical youth versus corrupt system as dissenters convicted of crimes are given the choice of imprisonment or a three day trek across punishment park ( death valley ) and freedom .
of course the law enforcement officials monitoring their journey are n't about to play fair and combined with the stifling heat the fate of our protagonists looks sealed.punishment park has elements of kafka in setting as well as theme .
trials are held under a large canvas tent where shackled prisoners shout defiance at a hardcore love it or leave it group of inquisitors ( such as members of silent majority for a peaceful america ) who snarl back .
neither group spends much time listening to the other and the proceedings sometime takes on a teen parent battle over the keys to the car look .
mostly its just one side saying what 's wrong with america the other saying what 's right with no one offering solutions for change .
meanwhile the punishment park martyrs stumble endlessly about the dessert while cops with guns act like twelve year olds .
it kind of has the look and feel of some of my 70 's college film making class when we were younger and knew more then than we do now.peter watkins has always been on the side of the underdog and the common man against what he perceives as a corrupt powerful few .
culledon was a strong indictment of military atrocity in 18th century scotland that still resonates .
war game is a raw sobering look at nuclear aftermath that should be required viewing for all .
punishment park has its value as well but for other than intended reason .
watkins vision today is a textbook example of the left in full tilt counter culture 70s paranoia and given the times ( vietnam , kent state , the chicago 7 ) such strident hysteria seemed not that great a distance from the truth .
but 35 years later the fever has subsided and punishment park with it 's unrestrained narrow viewpoint is a pretty silly ride .