**possible spoilers** from dreamworks and director peter chan , `the love letter ' is a romantic comedy that takes place in a picturesque , new england coastal village where single mom helen ( kate capshaw ) owns a quaint , little bookstore .
one day at work , helen happens across an anonymous letter ( the `love letter ' of the title ) that has somehow become lodged beneath the cushions of a reading couch .
upon reading the amorous prose therein , she believes it has been written to her , purposely placed in the couch for her to find , and , for reasons of her own , thinks she knows the identity of her secret admirer .
inadvertently , however , helen leaves the letter out where her employee , janet ( ellen degeneres ) finds it , believes it to be for her , and , of course , thinks she knows who wrote it .
circumstances then bring it into the possession of a young man named johnny ( tom everett scott ) , who thinks helen has written the letter to him .
and before it all gets sorted out , you can only imagine the hilarious situations into which all of those involved have been cast ; and i do mean imagine , because the way this movie plays out , the audience gets little more from it than what it brings along itself .
there are two specific areas in which this romantic comedy fails miserably : it simply is n't very romantic , and it 's not funny ; and that is a potent combination that causes this film to misfire practically from the opening credits .
once the setting and main character ( helen ) have been established , it basically goes nowhere for the next ninety minutes or so .
by the time you finally find out who actually wrote the letter , and to whom , you could care less .
rounding out the cast is tom selleck , blythe danner , julianne nicholson , gloria stuart and geraldine mcewan .
it 's a shame to see such talent wasted on such claptrap as this , and looking bad in the balance .
kate capshaw , who usually brightens up the screen just by showing up , looks tired here , while selleck appears to have just come in off a three day bender that 's lasted a week .
ellen degeneres actually comes away looking the best of the bunch .
it is said that the journey is often a more heady experience than the destination .
in the case of `the love letter , ' however , it would have been best for all concerned if everybody had just stayed home in the first place .
i rate this one 1/10 .