that snarl ... that scowl ... the acts of random violence ... the gutteral voice ... the fetish wear ... that shaven head ... it can mean only one thing ... grace jones is back !
actually my sources tell me that the title role in blade was n't played by the 1980s diva , but by wesley snipes.all in all this is not an improvement.blade is an adaptation of a comic character ; somehow in the transfer from the simplistic , two-dimensional world of the printed page it has become even more simplistic and lost a couple of dimensions.the plot is hackneyed almost beyond belief and adds nothing to the vampire genre , in fact , much like nosferatu , it seems to suck the life out of the audience .
in brief , upwardly mobile vampire wants to become more powerful but is opposed by blade , half-human , half-vampire , all annoying .
it all climaxes with blade being put in a vampire juice press , some bad martial arts and the most pitiful cgi since 1968.blade has to be the least empathic character since dolph lundgren 's punisher ( also a comic adaptation , perhaps there is a trend here ? )
.
surely the audience is meant to be on the same side as the 'hero ' ?
and whilst a vampire can be a tragic character , this is not true of blade , he is relentlessly cruel , scornful and not a whole lot better than the bad guys.i assume that wesley snipes has an 'acting ' career purely so that everyone else can be compared favourably .
as he snarls his way through his movie you find yourself looking for a stake - even a ballpoint pen - anything to put blade in the grave .
as a piece of narcissism , blade is pretty much unbeatable - we are treated to endless lingering shots of a gym-fresh snipes for no reason whatsoever .
likewise no other actor is allowed any chance to give a reasonable performance ; the likes of steven dorff *can* act , but they have to play second fiddle to snipes ' tedious performance.kris kristofferson used to appear in good movies , here he is reduced to a sidekick that you just know is n't going to make it through to the final reel .
and what happens when blade finds out ?
yes , you guessed it , he rushes to the scene to wreak his revenge in the villain 's giant underground lair.why ca n't world-domination take place in a quiet country house ?
they always go ahead in underground cathedrals that would have had albert speer wondering if they were a little grandiose .
a lot of these plans could be stopped right now if local councils paid more attention to plans for extending sub-basements .
the rest of the movie is just as dull and unimaginative with nothing new to add to the genre .
vampires have been done to undeath and perhaps they should be laid to rest for a while - at least until someone can think of some way to make them interesting again.to finish , there *is* a grace jones vampire movie , it 's called vamp and it 's about ten times better than this .