2001 is one of those movies where , if you do n't like it , you are told that you do n't 'get it ' and need to look at the deeper meaning and symbolism .
you 're told that you clearly have a slow attention span , and just want to see sex , explosions , and have the plot handed to you on a platter.let 's break down the movie shall we ?
three minutes of blackness , with something that sounds like a dying hippo in the background .
then we get the opening credits .
a minute of fascinating shots of the savannah .
then a bunch of monkeys find a black rock and start killing things with bones .
cut to the first of many 20-minute shots of ships doing things while the 'blue danube ' plays in the background .
a bunch of pointless dialogue , and a group of moon scientists find another monolith.cut to a spaceship that 's too long for the crew complement -- three sleeping people , two people named dave and frank , who have only slightly more personality than the stiffs in hibernation .
and then there 's hal , the 'perfect ' supercomputer who runs the ship .
predictably , he snaps and starts breaking the first law of robotics .
now this is something that has potential .
an evil , coldly ruthless super-mind who controls the surrounding environment and can predict your every move .
and what does he do ?
he lets one guy float into space and turns off the hibernation machines so the three sleeping guys die , leaving dave floating in a pod .
he simply uses the airlock , puts on a spacesuit , and turns hal off -- agonizingly slowly .
then , apparently , there 's some psychedelic 'evolution ' at jupiter.here 's the movie with the pauses taken out : apes see monolith , kill things .
scientists find moon monolith .
hal kills people .
hal dies ; dave gets a prerecorded message , and evolves at jupiter.this is not me 'not getting it . '
this is me being bored to tears by long stretches of absolutely nothing .
sure , it 's realistic , but i find i have no reason to care .
no matter the message , no movie can be good without being entertaining .
frankly , every character could be replaced with keanu reeves , and nothing would change .