when a killer calls has got to be the biggest ripoff released by asylum so far .
it 's about a sexy babysitter on duty who receives spooky calls from a creepy voice who asks her repeatedly , `` have you checked the girl ? ''
naturally she has the calls traced by the cops ( after having to perform some realistically unnecessary tasks -- hanging up when `` he '' calls , waiting ten seconds , and dialing *57 ) .
sound familiar ?
yeah , that 's why i rented it , too.well , it should .
and i hate to say it , but this could 've been more entertaining than the big-screen crapfest that was released around the same time if not for one fatal mistake -- rather than revelling in b-movie ripoff glory , it tried to do something original .
it tried to make the lead character sympathetic , rather than having clichéd , campy fun with her .
mind you , this could 've worked with a talented actress .
but she was n't .
sure , she looked good , and she screamed , and cried , but .
.
.
oh well , whatever.then came the horrific ending .
not horrific in that it was horrifying , horrific in that it was boring .
the pacing up until that point ( about an hour in ) was campy , clichéd , and fun .
then it heads in another direction , and it veers away from just another dumb , fun slasher movie with a sexy `` teenage '' cast to a hostel-esquire gore/borefest.i guess this falls into the `` oh well , whatever '' category .
the lead actress flubbed a line ?
oh well , whatever , i do n't feel like reshooting it .
we forgot to give the killer motivation ?
oh well , whatever , i do n't feel like rewriting it .
the pacing completely changes halfway through ?
oh well , whatever , i do n't feel like shaving fifteen minutes off .
continuity errors ?
oh well , whatever.if you like this kind of movie ( dumb , cheesy , predictable , campy splatter movie with sexy cast ) , then you 'll be fine up until the ending .
the ending is stupid , it 's not fun , it 's not scary , it 's not campy or cheesy or quickly-paced .
in fact , there was almost exactly five minutes of the character doing nothing but being tied up ( and that 's not a spoiler because it 's on the back of the dvd ) and looking around at the stuff in the room , then screaming , and .
.
.
whatever .