i 'm gettin ' sick of movies that sound entertaining in a one-line synopsis then end up being equal to what you 'd find in the bottom center of a compost heap.who knows : `` witchery '' may have sounded interesting in a pitch to the studios , even with a `` big name cast '' ( like blair and hasselhoff - wink-wink , nudge-nudge ) and the effervescent likes of hildegard knef ( i dunno , some woman ... ) .but on film , it just falls apart faster than a papier-mache sculpture in a rainstorm .
seems these unfortunate folks are trapped in an island mansion off the eastern seaboard , and one of them ( a woman , i 'd guess ) is being targeted by a satanic cult to bear the child of hell while the others are offed in grotesque , tortuous ways .
okay , right there you have a cross-section of plots from `` the exorcist '' , `` the omen '' , `` ten little indians '' and a few other lesser movies in the satanic-worshippers-run-amok line .
none of it is very entertaining and for the most part , you 'll cringe your way from scene to scene until it 's over.no , not even linda blair and david hasselhoff help matters much .
they 're just in it to pick up a paycheck and do n't seem very intent on giving it their `` all '' .
from the looks of it , hasselhoff probably wishes he were back on the beack with pam anderson ( and who can blame him ? )
and linda ... well , who knows ; a celebrity peta benefit or pro-am golf tour or whatever it is she 's in to nowadays.and the torture scenes !
ecchhhh .
you 'll see people get their mouths sewn shut , dangled up inside roaring fireplaces , strung up in trees during a violent storm , vessels bursting out of their necks , etc , etc .
sheesh , and i thought `` mark of the devil '' was the most sadistic movie i 'd seen ... .do n't bother .
it 's not worth your time .
i ca n't believe i told you as much as i did .
if you do watch it , just see if you can count the cliches .
and yes , blair gets possessed , as if you did n't see that coming down main street followed by a marching band.no stars .
`` witchery '' - these witches will give you itches .