'felony ' is a b-movie .
no doubt about it.of course , if you take a look at the cast lineup you might have some high hopes for its entertainment potential .
this film is stuffed with all of those wonderful character actors that you grew up with , the ones with the faces you immediately recognize even though you probably do n't know their names .
it 's amazing that the filmmakers were able to get all of these people together on one project , almost like they decided to do a b-movie actor reunion .
the cast even includes a couple of really first-rate actors : david warner , who most people will recognize from 'titanic ' ( although my favorite of his roles is jack the ripper in 'time after time ' ) and lance henriksen , who many will remember as bishop in 'aliens ' .
these two actors have done some excellent work in their long careers and made some very fine films.however , as impressive as this collection of actors is , their talent is never fully manifested on the screen .
the writers of 'felony ' spent a lot of money to assemble a dream-team cast and then missed their golden opportunity because of one important factor , the common denominator of all b-movies : a silly script.we start with a silly premise .
the bad guys are caught on tape committing a gruesome murder and they relentlessly pursue the film crew in order to acquire the videotape and destroy the evidence .
but honestly , why bother ?
in the time it takes them to track down the film crew , a thousand copies of that tape could be made and circulated to every law enforcement agency and media outlet .
the criminals do n't seem to realize how futile their effort is , and they talk as if stealing and destroying the one original videotape is going to solve the whole problem .
silly ... but i suppose if the bad guys were so logical there would be no movie.then there is the dialogue .
it is at times silly , at times cliché , and at times unbelievable ... everything you have come to expect from a b-movie .
of course , i have always believed that strong performances can overcome a lot of weaknesses in the material .
this cast includes actors who are definitely capable of strong performances , and although a number of the cast members are not good actors at all and have achieved b-movie status quite deservedly , one still might be hopeful that the stronger part of the cast would be able to infuse some life into their parts .
however , it 's disappointing to see that few of the actors in this film really seem to take the movie seriously enough to give it their best shot .
there 's not much inspiration evident in these performances , but then again it 's an uninspiring script .
now , i 'll admit that some of the more colorful actors in the cast do manage to add a certain amount of pizazz into the delivery of their lines , but honestly , even the very fine actors i mentioned earlier seem mostly disinterested and uninvolved with the story.speaking of the story ... even if the acting had been of a high enough caliber that it made the dialogue seem a little less cheesy , it still would not redeem 'felony ' from the fact that its writer commits the ultimate faux pas of low budget action movie scripts : a plot with as many holes as a block of swiss cheese .
you can watch this movie a hundred times and you still wo n't figure out how everything adds up .
in an effort to create suspense and always keep the viewer guessing , the writer throws in all kinds of surprises and unexpected twists into his script and ends up with a jigsaw puzzle , but when you get to the end you find there are a bunch of pieces that just do n't fit anywhere and others that are missing .
i admire a good thriller that keeps me guessing , but creating plot twists that exist just to confuse you and which are not consistent with the rest of the story is amateurish .
there was so much that was never explained that i felt extremely frustrated at the end .
if you decide to watch it , be prepared to be confused.i have n't even mentioned all kinds of other silly things about this movie , but i wo n't bother .
the funny thing is that despite everything i 've said , i have to admit that i ca n't give 'felony ' 1/10 stars .
although i ca n't exactly put my finger on why , i actually found this film to be somewhat likable .
the silliness can actually be fun at times if you are in the mood for it .
plus , i really like some of these character actors , and even though their performances are somewhat lackluster considering their talents , i still got a kick out of seeing them.now , i realize i have been rating this film from the standpoint of a serious moviegoer .
it 's entirely possible i have completely missed the point .
it could be that the filmmakers ' intention all along was to make a b-movie .
maybe the silliness is all completely intentional .
if that 's the case , and if i were to rate it on those terms , i would have to say that 'felony ' is a classic in the genre of tongue-in-cheek action flicks .
b-movie fans will love seeing all of their favorite actors together in one film , will get some chuckles from the script , and will be entertained by the healthy dose of guns , explosions , and chases .