i 'm an atheist .
to me history and truth mean a lot.this film is made after a novel published in 1921 , which is still being updated up to this day as if it was a history book .
well it 's not .
the movie is about the novels 1950s version .
some actors were great but that does n't cover the plot.in short man invents a super-bomb so god and his friends hold a tribunal to see if they must intervene .
the devil analogy persecutes man , and for defense we have the spirit of man .
what is the spirit of man anyway ?
and why was the first defendant adam ?
eventually you just get us christian propaganda in a 5th grade history book of the time .
though other religions are mentioned , only european christianity is explored.first we get the caveman story .
the women are scrawny stereotypes of damsels in distress .
real cave women were as strong as men and just as resistant .
hard times , hard life , adapt and survive .
all this is watered down by mid-century stereotypes.next we get egypt 's first pyramid construction .
today we see a different story and know that there were a lot less deaths and regular citizens at work as well .
loosing mentioned amount of many lives in the process would have been a national disaster and nobody after would try to beat it .
as if there was only one pyramid build.the part about moses and one true god was as if the spanish inquisition was asking nicely .
inquisition itself was never even mentioned in the movie.helen of troy 's evil grim was so vile that i did n't see why so many were even interested in her .
in reality they were just soldiers , following commanders orders , who were `` discussing '' a political issue of power .
she was just an excuse.the cleopatra story was were i saw this film was to inaccurate and filled with propaganda .
here brother was a lot younger .
she was not obsessed with poison , was quite educated to restore library content , and was politically competitive to drag beaten down egypt out of dirt.the part with nero and praying christians in a cave were disgusting .
yes , rome burned down .
yes , there was persecuted christianity .
but the way they portray it was as if the coliseum build itself and there was no vespasian to rebuild rome.attila the hun appears in a short seen and than we jump to king arthur .
the crusades are mentioned with minimal bloodshed .
and there is no mention of the crusades east to russia that ended in an ironic battle .
the knights just went home and started jousting for fun of it .
a lot of stuff is put down like no indoor pluming , hygiene and plagues.then they cover joan of ark , where she always has to much makeup and looks like a princes .
territorial politics were replaced with an unjust court .
the sidesaddle alone on a stool makes me want to ask how someone could follow here .
at here burning i wanted to yell `` hura !
now die already !
cheap special effects , where is the fire ?
`` .by the time they mentioned leonardo i already got fed up with the movie .
columbus , spanish slaughter of america , yelling queen elisabeth `` kick the spanish armada '' and so on and so on.the only reason i wanted to see this movie was the fact that it was the last one with all 3 marks brothers .
and all they got was the scene with manhattan and indians .
amusing , but no more than a smile.the witch-hunts are mentioned briefly , as well as plagues ( after renascence ) .
when they start portraying revolutions , things gut power-hungry and anarchistic .
the us revolution was pursued by the french revolution .
oppression and incompetence are bad , but you ca n't just blow the old way up out of anger , you must replace it with something .
so they replaced the french monarchy with new french monarchy .
so we get napoleon and his ambitions to go to india by land .
but they replace his motives with unity and band him for only the title `` emperor '' .
the conquests in europe , defeat in russia are sacked to waterloo.the us civil war , the english rich inventors ( tesla not included ) .
`` mister watson , come here , i want you '' almost made me laugh for teenage reasons .
technological hard work was watered down to the final discovery and comedic misuse.eventually after 85 minutes we come to world wars and organized crime , but none of its horrors .
adolph 's words `` i invade russia .
this is my last territorial demand '' were hilarious .
it was his last territorial demand.to build suspense god puts a countdown clock to doomsday on the `` wall '' for the final words .
all mighty cant pause the universe for a second ?
there was no need for the persecution speech but the defense made one last throw.last we see the man of tomorrow as the final defense .
apparently a paradox man , because the bomb was to go of today .
his toys are a music box in the shape of a gun and a pencil box sword .
now that is so wrong pens and pencils drew so many weapon blueprints that its kill count surpasses the atom bomb .
and making music out of a weapon ?
deluded egoistic generals make music out of weapon fire .
so the man of tomorrow is already a monster.the way i see it , all the defense had to do was blame the devil as the true conspirator for mans demise and case closed .
and honestly , compared to all barbaric stuff our ancestors did centuries ago we are pretty humane at painless backstabbing these days.to summarize all i will just quote `` firefly '' s episode `` jaynestown '' : `` it 's my estimation that every man ever got a statue made of him was one kind of son of bitch or another .
ai n't about you , jayne .
it 's about what they need '' .