irwin allen 's first venture into all star spectacle was one all star disaster .
the story of mankind contains some of the most incredible casting decisions of all time .
virginia mayo as the blond cleopatra , dennis hopper chewing the scenery with napoleon , peter lorre dining on the scenery for weeks as nero , marie wilson as marie antoinette as a roadshow marilyn monroe , that 's just some of them.the film also is known for being the last film which featured all three of the marx brothers though they all have different roles .
chico plays a monk who is christopher columbus 's confidante , groucho euchres the indians out of manhattan island as peter minuit , and most astonishing of all , harpo marx as sir isaac newton who discovers gravity when an apple conks him on the bean .
holding all these portrayals together is a story where mankind itself is being judged .
a super h bomb is about to be discovered and let loose will do in the world 's population .
it 's judgement day a coming.but mankind has its advocates and detractors .
speaking for the prosecution is old scratch who 's been bringing the worst out in man for centuries in the form of vincent price .
but man has his good side as well and who better than ronald colman to demonstrate man at his most civilized best .
colman and price plead their case before the judge played by cedric hardwicke .
in those three individuals you have some of the finest speaking voices the english language ever knew .
when the film is on them as they each bring out the exhibits for their case it 's a pleasure to listen to .
then when the focus is on the individual stories , you want to scream in agony.what was irwin allen driving at , i 'm still trying to figure it out .
was he deliberately camping it up with some of these casting decisions ?
if it was satire , it just does n't get off the ground.this was ronald colman 's farewell film and while it 's hardly something i 'd like to go out on , i ca n't think of any man who could have stated the case for civilization any better .
so when you see the story of mankind , fast forward through some of the exhibits and treasure every moment the advocates are before the judge .