i was really looking forward to seeing this movie , having spent a few ( fantastic ) college weeks in barcelona myself .
the premise is right on cue -- a confused & disordered young individual enters a world of equally confused & disordered young individuals .
but the director 's weak swats at symbolism , philosophy and social commentary were completely off the mark , and it leaves us , the audience , feeling confused & disordered .
bravo.perhaps if this movie had been presented as a european `` american pie '' flick , then i 'd be able to turn off my brain and go along for the ride .
but right off the bat , the director piques our deeper senses by introducing the symbolism of the twisted highways and the dichotomy of the `` inner self '' vs. the `` public self '' ( one 's `` mother tongue '' vs. one 's `` secondary language '' ) .
furthermore , it dives boldly into the subject of racial/national stereotyping .
off to an interesting start , eh ?
wrong .
that 's as far as it goes .
these interesting topics are hardly mentioned again except at the contrived epilogue-type ending which seemed to be the director 's way of floundering to get back on topic .
it reminded me of a meandering speech which goes nowhere , but the speaker ends by saying , `` so in conclusion , i hope you see how this relates to my original thought !
`` furthermore , as other reviewers have pointed out , the cynical jab at stereotyping betrays itself .
if the point is to ridicule the use of national stereotypes , then why did the director introduce a cockney-speaking , beer-swilling english brat as a caricature of prejudice ?
why did the director portray the american as a neanderthal ( literally banging his chest & making ape noises at one point ) whilst the europeans tolerate him superciliously ?
why is the british girl the one who sinks to uttering slurs ( calling french people `` frogs '' and butchering the french language ) while everyone else is above all that ?
the answer is that this is n't a deep or well-thought out film .
it 's simply an anglophobe 's retort to the anglophiles .
but really it 's no different from the prejudice it seeks to ridicule !
now there 's a funny irony to consider.ok , philosophy , artistry & socio-political commentary aside , i was still very bored by this movie .
there is one very funny gag which involves deceiving one of the girls ' boyfriends , but aside from that i was hardly entertained at all .
the only reason why i watched it through to the end is that i 'd like to brush up on my french & spanish .
( you see , we monolingual americans may be stupid , but we do try . )