watching alien express inspired feelings of awe , shock , pity and , yes , sheer terror .
to think that actors who have done good work in the past should come to something like this .
the horror , the horror.tell me if any of this sounds familiar.a train especially built for a political campaign is on it 's way to las vegas for a big rally for the candidate , a senator from texas ( barry corbin , the only actor with roles both alien express and no country for old men in the same decade ) .
at a railroad crossing in utah a meteor incinerates a car waiting for the train to pass.the train stops .
local law enforcement is summoned .
oh , can it be ?
the senator has a lovely young lady ( amy locane from cry-baby and melrose place ) who just happened to have once been married to one of the officers answering the 911 call .
lou diamond phillips ( stand and deliver , la bamba ) is the ex-husband.meanwhile eeeeevil aliens have managed to stow away on the train.the train leaves .
lou gets his buddy to pilot a helicopter so that lou can drop onto the moving train ( about 70 miles per hour ) so that he can save the day .
as the buddy 's reward , he crashes the helicopter into the mountain.which is another example of how poorly written alien express is .
the cop hero 's sidekick must die , we all know that .
but he 's supposed to die near the end of the third act , usually while saving several lives.once on the train , lou manages to lose his shirt so that he can channel bruce willis in die hard by wearing a wife beater t-shirt .
yeah , lou is 46 years old but he hits the gym .
the part he 's playing is n't worth bothering with , but he 's in good shape.the senator is going to have an afternoon delight with miss utah , but aliens intercede and both he and the woman young enough to be his granddaughter pay the ultimate price.soon we have bomb threats , multiplying aliens , and of course the train goes out of control and speeds toward its date with destiny while lou and todd bridges ( diff'rent strokes ) try to save as many lives as they can.there is exactly one surprise in the entire movie .
early in the story a couple lift wine glasses to their thirty-fifth anniversary , with hopes for thirty-five more years together .
the dude gets banged up , but he and the mrs. both live .
maybe the writers just lost track of them.this is the kind of movie that you 'd love to be a fly on the wall .
these actors who have done better work ( and , really , deserve much better than this ) are probably just happy for the work .
did they actually think they were working on something worthwhile , or did they cry ( and/or drink ) themselves to sleep at night ?
at the end of the story the ( fairly numerous , all things considered ) survivors gather in the last car of the train , which is unhooked .
the other cars go over a cliff but the one containing the protagonists stops just inches short of the cliff.lou and his ex are reunited .
happiness reigns .
i 'd have thought that the first thing they 'd do was get off the train so they 'd have solid ground under their feet , but i digress.someone looks out the window and sees a shooting star .
look , make a wish .
then another .
then more and more .
the earth is being bombarded with meteors that will crack open and creepy crawly hand puppets with big teeth will be everywhere.it 's gotten to a point that seeing the words `` the sci-fi channel presents '' on an `` original '' movie tells us that we 'll be glad we have ti-vo so that we can fast forward through the next two hours .
or , better yet , just go ahead and erase it two minutes into the story and spend that time more wisely .