this is fairly typical for the sci-fi channel : one-dimensional characters , a ridiculous plot , and terrible special effects .
we 've got some alien sock puppets loose on a train , and lou diamond phillips does his best with what little he 's given to eke out a performance .
and save the day .
everyone else in this is utterly dispensable ; the ex-wife who goes through the time-honored cliché of first disliking lou , then of course comes to love him again at the end .
the obnoxious state senator who gets munched early on , and a gaggle of dull security guards who run around a lot .
then there 's an eco-terrorist who is in this movie for absolutely no reason whatsoever , except to provide us with 3 % more running around .
he spends the whole middle part of the movie hiding in a box.the special effects really deserve their own paragraph .
we start with a meteorite that flies through the air , trailing flames behind it , at about 100 miles per hour .
according to the physics of this movie , if you exceed the posted speed limit in your car , atmospheric friction may cause you to burst into flames .
then it lands on the hood of a car , coming in horizontally .
sort of like a velcro ball landing on a velcro floor i guess .
it really does n't damage the car much , just bends up the hood a little bit .
later on lou gets in a helicopter and goes chasing after the train .
even though the train only had a two minute head start , it takes a good half hour to catch it .
the cgi is so bad that the helicopter looks like it 's as big as the hills it 's flying over .
then it flies into the side of a mountain - this effect must be seen to be believed .
it looks like they took a jar of gasoline and threw it against a wall , then superimposed the flame effect over the helicopter .
about 10 times too big .
no wonder the helicopter could n't pull up in time , it was carrying five tons of nitro glycerine .
then the eco-terrorist eventually blows himself up , but instead of exploding in all directions like most explosions do , he explodes upwards like a cannon aimed into the air .
then there 's the whole deal with not being able to stop the train because that would allow the little aliens to get off , but it appears that the aliens can actually fly faster than the train is traveling , so why this would keep them on the train i have no idea.overall , if you 've got a couple of hours that absolutely need killing , and it 's down to this movie or reruns on the food network , well , come to think of it , some of those chefs are kind of cute .
usually these movies have at least one or two things about them that make it possible to sit through them ; maybe there 's a sexy girl , some t & a , or a character that actually has some personality , or some suspense or , well , something .
i really did n't see any of that here .