`` eh-heh eh-heh hey , dude - look at these aliens .
they 're like - biting the humans and stuff !
eh-heh eh-heh eh-heh '' this must rank amongst the worst movies of all time .
it 's utter drivel for anyone with a modicum of a brain .
sure , you have the reviewers on the payroll who give glowing reviews and vote highly for this abomination but it 's easy to tell who these sell-outs are .
their reviews are too good .
to give a movie like this even a mediocre review claiming it had some b-movie remedial appeal would be a glowing review !
calling this a great movie tips the hands of the corporate shills.but enough of that.this movie had about all the bad characteristics a movie can have without being so bad that it 's enjoyable just to laugh at .
the old japanese 60 's monster films had a quality that this movie lacked .
at least in those 60 's films you could laugh at just how bad the rubber monster suit looked .
or laugh at seeing the strings holding the space ships , how the models dangled on the strings and how the flames curved upwards out of the back .
those movies made fun of how bad they were .
alien express ( aka dead rail ) seems to actually think of itself as a good movie - which makes it incredibly absurd.the effects were awful by today 's standards .
beyond awful .
however not quite as bad as the 60 's monster movies hence they lacked the comedic appeal .
the plot and dialogue were about as sophomoric as i 've ever seen , made even worse by being every bit as predictable as you might expect .
i wo n't even point out the plot and logic holes in this one ; it just would n't be fair to this pitiable plot ( plus it would take to long to even get started ) .
most of the acting was awful ; lou diamond phillips must have been very desperate to agree to touch this one.scifi channel is rapidly becoming the `` cheap thrills channel '' , producing movie after movie without an iota of concept or intelligence in the lot .
i can only wonder - why bother ?
do n't bother with this tripe .
it does n't get any worse .