the first official release of world wrestling entertainment 's film division is a pretty basic horror/slasher movie called `` see no evil '' starring kane , one of their big men wrestlers known for having an intimidating presence , hard-hitting moves , and one of the most convoluted backstories in wrestling .
and let 's not pull any punches here ; while this movie is promoted as the greatest horror movie of all time ( mostly by wwe ) , it goes without saying that after having seen this movie , i can confirm it as one of the greatest comedies of all time .
`` see no evil '' sees a bunch of juvenile delinquents sent to a hotel so they can clean up .
of course , a monstrous murderer ( played by kane ) also happens to be living in this hotel and we all know where that goes .
without giving away too much of the movie plot , this film has all the semblance and structure of an early-1980s slasher flick with most of the clichés intact , but without any of the scares that those films accompany .
and that 's sort of the main problem with `` see no evil '' .
it tries so many of the tricks implied by its predecessors in the genre that it comes off as predictable ; veteran horror fans will easily recognize some of the gimmicks ahead of time and even those who have only seen a few flicks should tell what happens next .
it 's too generic to be scary.the movie 's gory , no doubt , but it 's only there for the effect .
the dark atmosphere instilled in the movie gives off that feel of terror initially , but as you get towards the end , it somehow feels out of place and gets tiresome quickly .
the death scenes do n't come off as gory and horrific as much as they do laughable , although some of them are pretty inventive.and the acting in this movie is pretty bad too , as the main characters are n't developed enough for us to care when they eventually do get axed .
some ca n't even portray fear properly ; they just scream and cry in a vain effort to emote .
so when they die , it only adds to the comedy because you do n't care enough about them that you simply consider them the equivalent of starfleet redshirts to the monster kane.as for kane , he simply portrayed his movie character the same way he portrays his wrestling character , only he uses axes and hooks instead of hellfire and brimstone .
there 's no doubt in my mind that kane can be a great fixture in the horror genre .
he has the look and presence for it ; he just needs better material ( specifically a script that is n't written by someone who writes wrestling shows ) to work with.now , despite what may seem like a harsh review , i actually enjoyed the film .
it 's one of those laughably bad movies that you ca n't help but sit down and enjoy .
my main gripe with the film , again , is that it 's simply an exercise in filming gory kills and does n't have any frightening or shock moments .
i enjoyed it , but i enjoyed because it was easy for me to laugh off some of what was supposed to be scary moments in the movie .
if that happens because it was supposed to be that way , the movie would have been rated higher .
but it did n't .
it got laughs because it 's a b-movie and it does n't help that the director 's previous experiences was porn flicks and music videos ; not exactly overcomplicated things to direct anyway .
nonetheless , i enjoyed it tremendously.if you do n't mind a fun b-movie or funny horror film , i 'd highly recommend `` see no evil . ''
if you are a true enthusiast of the genre , i 'd wait until the dvd comes out before checking it out .
everyone else should probably go watch something else .