eight teen convicts are brought to the abandoned blackwell hotel to clean it out as community service .
they soon discover that it 's the residence of a hulking psychopath ( kane ) who has a thing for pulling out and collecting eyeballs .
it does n't help that the guard watching over them ( steven vidler ) has had a previous run-in with the beast four years earlier .
a guilty pleasure of mine are slasher films .
most of them are poorly directed and acted but they still hold some appeal and entertainment value .
see no evil is a good example of this .
it features atrocious writing and acting but the death scenes are pretty good and the movie proves to be entertaining .
the premise sounds like a mixture between friday the 13th , saw 2 and halloween : resurrection .
i really liked the idea but it did n't work out too well .
it was really just a bunch of clichés and everything was predictable .
screenwriter dan madigan just focused on the death scenes and nothing else apparently .
the death scenes themselves are pretty good and gruesome .
director gregory dark did a good job with them and he came up with some creative kills .
the acting is pretty bland and unremarkable .
this is because all of the characters are one dimensional and we do n't know much about them .
it was hard to feel for these people because they were pretty unlikable .
kane is surprisingly mediocre .
i was expecting his on screen presence to be scarier but he did n't do that good of a job .
a second rate jason voorhees , if you will .
the rest of the actors are relatively unknown and this film will probably neither help nor hurt their careers .
while the death scenes are gory , they are n't necessary scary .
there 's really no suspense just some gory death scenes .
because of this , the movie does n't hold much of a repeat value .
also , if you do n't like slasher films then do n't waste your time with this one .
it will do little to change your opinion .
in the end , see no evil is a decent slasher film but it is generic and forgettable so it 's not exactly worth watching .
rating 6/10