in watching this off and on for a few seasons , two things come to mind : one - wondering what kind of girl wants to be a `` model '' and two - run to the nearest ice cream store and have a low fat sundae.i tried to be a fan because i liked the idea of this reality show competition .
no other `` famous '' model thought of this , and it is very admirable for tyra banks to do so .
but as the series goes on and on i 've come to the conclusion that this is a sorry lot of folks trying to make a mountain out of a molehill .
women should n't watch this , teens should stay clear of it unless they 're doing book reports on the subject.many women try out for slots to compete for `` americas next top model '' .
they live together , cat fight together , cry together , get put through pointless modeling shoots with pointless modeling people and fashionatas and get eliminated and almost all of them claim , `` you will see me again '' .
heck , i 'm trying to see what happened to the ones that did win , actually.this is the dream of some girls , and good for them .
in watching this i hope the other girls that see this and run like hades the other way - like to college.i just happened to watch more of this recent season because of the `` ploy '' of full figured models joining the group .
that even made me think more of this as a sorry lot of folks .
the `` full figured models '' were no more than average sized ladies competing with what i think is the thinnest group of models they ever chose - so of course that would make them look even fatter - a `` ploy '' fashionatas use all the time .
bad , bad , tyra and crew.but to be fair , `` americas next top model '' is not about `` full figured '' models , it 's about projecting an imagined image a beauty that can be mass marketed and sold as the ultimate in beauty - and this show is just looking for the next fresh piece of meat to add to the mix .
hence the name of the show .
hence the sorry lot of judges , photographers , associations .
hence tyra and her consistent `` this was me '' plugs every camera angle you can get .
but then again , that is the one thing i like about this show - the ex-model giving others who would n't have the chance -- a chance to enter the doors .
but after that ... everything else is status quo for that industry which is why there are no surprises or week to week interest in the program .