a really very bad movie , with a very few good moments or qualities.it starts off with pregnant linda blair , who runs down a hallways to flee what might be monsters or people with pitchforks , i 'm not sure .
she jumps through a window and wakes up , and we see she is very pregnant .
the degree to which she is pregnant varies widely throughout the movie.she and an annoying and possibly retarded little boy who i thought was her son travel to an abandoned hotel on an island .
italian horror directors find the most irritating little boys to put in their movies !
on the island already are david hasselhoff and his german-speaking virgin girlfriend ( you know how germans are said to love hasselhoff ... ) .
he 's taking photographs , and she 's translating an esoteric german book about witches , i think.also traveling to the island are an older couple who have purchased it , and a real estate agent , and a woman i thought was their daughter .
evidently she was an architect , and linda blair and the boy are the older couple 's children .
i guess they all traveled to the island together , but it really seemed like linda and the boy were apart from the rest of them ( maybe they were filmed separately ) .the hotel seems neat , certainly from the exteriors , but it is n't used to any great effect .
an old woman in bad makeup and a black cloak keeps appearing to the boy and chants something in german sometimes , which he eventually records on his sesame street tape recorder.people start getting killed , either in their dreams , or sucked into hell or something .
some of these gore scenes are ok , but not enough to recommend the movie .
though the copy i watched stated it is uncut on the box cover , the death of one character whose veins explode really seems to have been cut .
much of the scene is showing another character 's reaction shots , since we 're not seeing anything ourselves .
the creepiest scene is one in which a man or demon with a really messy-looking wound of a mouth rapes someone .
he looked particularly nasty .
there 's a laughably and painfully bad scene in which linda blair is possessed .
i wish if a horror movie is going to cast her , they would do something original with her role , and let her leave exorcist behind her ( except for the yearly horror conventions ) .in the weird , largely italian , tradition of claiming to be a sequel to something it is unrelated to , this is also aka la casa 4 and ghosthouse 2. that is , it is supposedly a sequel to casa 3 - ghosthouse , la ( 1988 ) - it 's not ( that 's also a better movie than this one ) .
la casa 1 and two were the evil dead ( 1981 ) and evil dead ii ( 1987 ) - again unrelated to witchery and la casa 3 ( and much better than those ) .
there 's also a casa 5 , la ( 1990 ) aka house 5 , which seems to want to be a sequel to the fake la casa series and the series house : house ( 1986 ) house ii : the second story ( 1987 ) , the horror show ( 1989 ) aka house iii , and house iv ( 1992 ) .
how 's the horror show fit in there ?
it does n't really , it claimed to be a sequel , thus requiring the real series entry to renumber itself to cause less ( or more ? )
confusion .
oddly , the horror show is also aka horror house , and la casa 5 is also aka horror house 2. does your head hurt yet ?