last fall ( of 2001 ) , i took a film class that was taught by the director of this movie ( mark hoeger ) .
his vast knowledge of filmmaking , his ability to dissect any scene of a film , and his winning of an academy award in some obscure category seemed to give him more credibility than your average independent film director .
when he mentioned during one of his classes that he had just finished directing a film called `` full ride '' and was in the post-production stages , my interest was piqued .
however , that would be the last i would ever hear of that film project .
until last week ... last week , i saw in a tv listing that `` full ride '' was going to be showing on the wb network .
this immediately raised a red flag , as i ca n't help but associate wb with teensploitation shows such as dawson 's creek , charmed , etc .
plus , the fact that full ride was going to be released straight to tv was n't too flattering in itself .
but , nevertheless , i set aside that time and sat down to watch my former film teacher 's creation.after two hours passed and the end credits began to roll , i thought long and hard about what i had just seen .
what i had just seen was a typical wb-quality show stretched out to the length of two hours .
in fact , it almost seemed as if this movie was made with the sole intent of only showing on the wb network .
critiquing this movie will basically be like critiquing a typical wb show.where to begin ?
the characters are shallow , the story is cliche in every sense of the word , the scenes are completely contrived , and the character development is forced and unbelievable .
this movie just screams `unoriginal .
'the main character , matt sabo , is some hot shot from the wrong side of the tracks ( literally ) who plays solid high school football as a fullback , but then fizzles off into a life of crime .
he is then offered a chance at a full ride scholarship instead of going to jail .
obviously , without much of a choice , he agrees to play football with an all-star football team , but is not excepted among his peers because of his poor team spirit and bad attitude.then comes the love interest .
of course !
where would this predictable fanfare be without a love interest ?
she comes in the form of amy lear ( played by the beautiful meredith monroe ) .
she is actually a likable character , as opposed to the ever-so-abrasive matt sabo , so we almost applaud her when she rejects him at first .
but , of course , the inevitable comes to pass .
she falls for him , changes his attitude towards everything , and all seems good and happy .
but now it 's time for conflict !
earlier in the movie , amy makes it clear to matt that she does n't want to score with him , because it would be `shameful ' to her and her mother .
this is much to matt 's dismay , and his football buddies ( yes , they eventually warm up to him ) who bet him he would n't get any .
but , of course , matt eventually comes to accept these terms and decides he 's not all about the nookie .
here 's where the exciting plot thickens .
if you do n't want me to ruin this surprise , then skip ahead .
[ begin spoiler ] matt finds out from some local guys that apparently amy lear always tries to score with a guy each year from the all-star team so that she can try to use him to escape her small town life of working in a cafeteria ( which is baffling in the first place ) and make it to the big city .
suddenly realizing he 's been used and that his love was a sham , matt it tempted to turn back to a life of crime and leave the football camp before `the big game . '
amy tries to reassure him that she was really in love this time , but he 's too hot-headed to buy it .
so what will matt do ?
will he take her back ?
or will he go back to robbing gas stations and being an all-round jerk ?
i wo n't ruin the super-ultra-surprising ending for you .
[ end spoiler ] so , if i somehow got you pumped up for this movie , please realize that that was my sarcasm and not genuine enthusiasm .
this movie is an uninspired version of `varsity blues ' or `summer catch . '
and that 's not saying much .
there 's hardly any comedy to save it and the characters are too shallow to care about .
so what do you have left ?
not a whole lot.what i most disliked about the movie was how much of an unflattering picture hoeger painted of nebraska through this film .
it seems like he was trying to capture the essence of rural nebraska and teenage life in the small towns , but his approach is all too stereotypical and shallow .
the characters ' high hopes for making in `the big city ' and the actions they take to do so are greatly exaggerated , and it only further cements the stereotype of nebraskans being a bunch of hicks living in farm communities .
i am unsure of whether or not hoeger 's intentions were good in trying to put his home state in the spotlight , but i think he ended up with a very shameful product .
if hoeger wanted to portray nebraska in a favorable light , he should have taken a note or two from alexander payne .
while payne simply chooses to use nebraska as a backdrop for his films , hoeger integrates it into the plot of full ride and becomes so entangled in his awareness of where he 's shooting , that he ends up churning out superficial garbage that would seem to come from an outsider .
if hoeger actually lived here , you 'd think he 'd know better than that.all in all , i am completely disappointed in hoeger 's first big film , and i hope that next time he can combine his knowledge with a little bit of originality to create something different and thought-provoking .