following his role in the fine caper seven thieves ( 1960 ) – which i’ve watched several years back – edward g. robinson seemed to be stuck playing elderly criminal mastermind types ( apart from the odd juicy role as in the cincinnati kid [ 1965 ] ) .
i’d previously watched the pretty good “euro-cult” effort grand slam ( 1967 ) and , apart from this , i’ve yet two more similar titles from italy to check – one of which was directed by future goremeister lucio fulci !
anyway , this is the kind of international production – featuring american and italian actors and a british director – which was prevalent during the 1960s ; it’s harmless and easy-going in itself but hardly memorable and definitely overlong – especially since to procure finance for the heavy-duty equipment required for the heist ( such as an army tank and an airplane ! )
, the gang involved have to pull a variety of minor thefts first.the gang , of course , is an incompetent lot led by an american ( robert wagner ) and his bimbo girlfriend ( raquel welch ) – the others are a ‘pacifist’ black man , a perennially hungry italian and a diminutive englishman .
they try to induce an ex-gangster ( vittorio de sica ) to turn over his fortune to them , except he’s destitute…but , under the auspices of “professor” robinson , he proposes instead a caper of 5 million dollars’ worth of platinum !
needless to say , the gang members don’t trust one another ( wagner instructs welch to seduce de sica so as to get the name of their fence in morocco – where they are to retreat after the robbery ) , or else bungle the job ( commissioned to hold up a restaurant , the italian can’t resist sitting at table and order a multi-course meal for himself ! )
.
amusingly , in the face of similar failures , de sica tries to show them how they used to do it in the old days – however , ostensibly holding up a petrol station , it transpires that the owner is a nephew of his and he merely asked to borrow some cash !
the central heist sequence is typically elaborate : while the gang , including welch , ‘take’ the train transporting the platinum , wagner kidnaps pilot victor spinetti and his airplane .
when the job is done , he fully intends to double-cross de sica – but neither his partners nor welch herself are willing to go along with this , so he’s forced to relent .
coming from the time when crime didn’t pay , the gang contrives to lose all their stash in mid-air when the plane’s bomb-bay doors are accidentally opened…