wrestlemania 2 is the only wrestlemania|thank god| to be held at three different locations , and while it was an interesting idea , it did n't really work .
there are only really two matches that really struck out , with the rest being decent , or most of them , pretty terrible .
there are some entertaining celebrity 's on hand , like susan saint james , ray charles and cathy crosby , but the experience was a waste of time for the most part .
the british bulldgos vs the dream team match , is worth the price of admission itself , but you can honestly see that anywhere.matches.nassau coliseum.paul orndorff vs the magnificent muraco/w mr.fuji .
for the time it had , and despite the crappy finish , this was surprisingly bearable stuff , with the crowd being really into it .
crowd chants `` bullsh*t '' at the end .
that being said it did nothing for either 's career .
match ends in a double count out with them fighting outside the ring2/5intercontinental championship match .
randy savage|c| vs george `` the animal '' steele .
not that great wrestling wise , but heavily entertaining due to the antics involved , and some great comedy from steele , besides savage can wrestle a potato and make it look interesting .
savage wins when he puts his feet on the ropes , for leverage.2 1/2 /5jake `` the snake '' roberts vs george wells .
for a throwaway match , this was better than it should have been , but it 's too short to make any impact what so ever .
roberts wins with the ddt , pulling out the snake afterwords , which disgusts saint james.1 1/2 /5boxing match .
mr.t/w the hati kid & joe frazier vs roddy piper/w lou duva & bob orton .
a huge failure in my opinion .
i was bored senseless throughout this , and while it may have been a marketing success , it certainly did n't succeed at entertaining me .
lot of rowdy chants are noticeable as well .
t wins by dq , when piper slams t.1/5rosemont horizonwomen 's title match .
fabulous moolah|c| vs velvet mcintyre .
ends too quickly , before it even gets a chance to start , making a record for quick pin fall , as far as woman 's matches are concerned .
moolah wins when she takes advantage of velvet 's missed splash from the top rope0/5corporal kirchner vs nikolai volkoff/w classy freddie blassie .
big pop for the corporal .
stupid match up , with boring offense from both involved , while being much too short to matter .
corporal wins when he whacks volkoff with blassie 's cane.1/5battle royal .
william perry and andre get the biggest pops .
this is pretty entertaining stuff , despite all the nfl talent involved .
it 's also noteworthy for bret hart 's 1st ever wrestlemania appearance .
andre wins when he chucks the hart foundation out.2 1/2 /5tag team titles .
british bulldogs/w lou albano & ozzy osbourne vs the dream team/w johnny valiant|c| .
absolutely tremendous match , that is one of the best wrestlemania matches of all time .
you wo n't have time to catch your breath , with all the maneuvers on hand , and the excellent in ring psychology .
this is pure wrestling at it 's finest , you can not call yourself a wrestling fan , if you dislike this match .
bulldogs win when dynamite kid collide 's heads with valentine4/5los angeles memorial sports arenaricky steamboat vs hercules hernandez .
pretty decent match up here , with both men putting on solid performances .
hercules is a nasty brute , with above average skills , and it contrasted well with steamboat 's high-flying style .
steamboat wins with a high-flying cross body off the top rope.2 1/2 /5adrian adonis vs uncle elmer .
terrible match , with annoying comedy involved .
the fans love uncle elmer , but i do not .
adonis wins with a top rope maneuver.0/5the funk brothers vs tito santana & jyd .
pretty solid match here , with a lot of memorable bumps taken from terry funk|the one through the table was something else for that time| .
i would have to rate this as my 2nd favorite .
funks win with help from jimmy hart 's megaphone.3/5wwf championship .
hulk hogan|c| vs king kong bundy .
decent pop for hogan .
one of the most over-hyped matches in wrestlemania history .
hogan ca n't wrestle worth a lick , and bundy is not that great himself .
the violence was brutal for the time , but hogan 's superhero act is kind of annoying , and there are too many boring moments .
hogan wins when he escapes before bundy.1/5bottom line .
wrestlemania 2 is a failure in most aspects .
die hard wrestling fans should see this once , but you really do n't have too .
there is n't enough here , to satisfy a true wrestling fan .
vince blew it on this one .
do n't be fooled by the hype of the main event , it really is a boring affair , like most of the card .
not recommended , and ranks as one of the worst wrestlemania 's , outside of the brilliant tag title match.4/10