i just watched atoll k-laurel and hardy 's last movie together and known here in the states as utopia-on internet archive expecting to see some extra footage since the ia version had a running time of 2 hours and 21 minutes .
turns out that it 's basically the same version i previously watched on the bargain basement vhs tape from goodtimes home video that ran an hour and 23 minutes ( with the exception of no product placement of the welch 's grape juice label being inserted when a bottle was shown ) with the rest of the running time devoted to dark blank space .
while stan does look like he might be dying anytime soon , he still performs fine physical comedy with ollie during much of the first 45 minutes or so .
then the plot of taking a yacht with a stowaway and a man with no country aboard-not to mention a charming female french singer also coming to inhabit an uncharted island they all end up on-takes over with eventual complications that pretty much bogs the comedy down and never really recovers despite the familiar ending of ollie saying for the last time to stan , `` here 's another nice mess you 've gotten me into ! ''
before stan cries uncontrollably before the fade out .
in other words , if you 're a die-hard laurel and hardy fan , this movie is recommended for you to see at least once .
anyone else wanting to get familiar with this classic comedy team should seek their earlier work they did for hal roach from the '20s up through 1940 when they completed their final roach film , saps at sea .
come to think of it , even some of the l & h fox flicks ( have yet to see the two they made for m-g-m ) from the '40s are better than this one ... update-8/29/09 : just watched some missing scenes that appeared in the italian version on youtube .
cherie sings in one and has a conversation with the captain .
in another , that captain 's wife pulls a gun on cherie .
in one more , giovanni explains why he left his country with a flashback scene .
stan is dubbed in high pitch here !