witchcraft/witchery/la casa 4/ and whatever else you wish to call it .
how about..crud.a gathering of people at a massachusetts island resort are besieged by the black magic powers of an evil witch killing each individual using cruel , torturous methods .
photographer gary ( david hasselhoff ) is taking pictures for linda ( catherine hickland whose voice and demeanor resemble ee-yor of the winnie the poo cartoon ) , a virgin studying witchcraft , on the island resort without permission .
rose brooks ( annie ross , portraying an incredibly rude bitch ) is interested in perhaps purchasing the resort and , along with husband freddie ( robert champagne , who is always ogling other women much younger than him ) , pregnant daughter jane ( linda blair ) and grandson tommy ( michael manchester , who just looks bored throughout , probably wanting to watch sesame street instead of starring in this rubbish ) , go by boat to the resort being treated to a look at the property by realtor tony giordano 's son jerry ( rick farnsworth ) , obviously a pup in the business getting his feet wet .
along with these folks is architect leslie ( leslie cumming , whose character is a nympho ) who might help rose re-design the resort .
the boat 's captain is killed by the lady in black ( hildegard knef , wearing her make-up and lip-stick extra thick ) and a storm is brewing .
the boat drives off by itself ( ..guided by the invisible power of the lady in black , i guess ) with everyone stuck in the decrepit resort , which is in dire need of repairs .
most of the victims , before meeting their grisly fates are carried through a type of red wormhole whose vortex leads to another dimension ( ..perhaps a type of hell or something ) where they are tortured by these fiends dressed in raggedy clothes with a crummy visage .
one victim has her mouth sown before being hung upside down in a chimney , roasted as the others light the fireplace .
one poor soul is tortured by harsh twistings of rope wrapped tightly around her flesh before being found hanging from the snout of a swordfish penetrating through her neck .
one fellow is slowly suffocating as his veins bulge ( ..and bleed ) and neck 's blood vessels burst squirting in hasselhoff 's face !
one fellow is crucified with nails hammered into his hands before being hung upside down over an open flame .
blair 's pregnant victim becomes possessed with her hair standing on end speaking in another woman 's voice .
one is raped by this demonic man with a `` diseased '' mouth as the hellish hobos stand nearby gleefully cheering .
the film , despite it 's excesses , is mostly dull fodder for those who really wish to see the lowest point in the careers of hasselhoff and blair , who deserve better than this .
almost unbearable at times , building little-to-no suspense .
clumsy execution of the death sequences which look cheap and laughable .
sure some gore is okay , but most of the film shows victims after they 've been run through the ringer .
we do get a chance to see pregnant women ( ..who look exactly like stuntmen in costume with bad wigs ) jumping out three story windows .
oh , and the lady in black 's reflected face often pops up on inanimate objects for characters to see .
tommy has a little sesame street recorder which tapes the lady in black 's mumbo jumbo chants , obviously used for later .
for some reason , the lady in black likes to visit little tommy .
he 's not at all scared of her , for tommy 's just too bored to show any expression on his face , much less fear .
need i say more ?
this one 's a real stinker .
ugh .