oh , why did it have to end like this ?
laurel and hardy 's last film , from the crudely cranked-up cuckoo theme ( with erroneous credit to hal roach ) to the closing `` nice mess '' / '' i could n't help it '' schtick , this is the duo as a grotesque parody of themselves .
in between , their relationship is now solely constructed of uncertain acting , asinine dialogue and half-hearted slapstick .
people slate king of new york , but chaplin 's final bow-out was nowhere near as undignified as this.what really hurts to someone who loves laurel and hardy is the appearance of the two comedians .
the video cover i 'm holding shows them at their prime , all boyish smiles and glowing skin , with a blurb on the back that reads `` the photograph on this sleeve is for illustrative purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the content of the film . ''
necessarily ?
it does n't even come close .
the actual film sees them at least fifteen years older than the photographs that adorn the sleeve , with ollie distressingly overweight .
this is not humorously , or comically , fat , as he would normally appear , but ill looking and on the verge of obesity .
he would be dead seven years after this film was made , after a series of strokes .
stan , meanwhile , suffering a prostrate problem and dysentery , looks ghoulish as his weight has plummeted drastically .
every time something bad happens to him , such as getting squashed between a lifeboat and a table , you fear for his life .
even ollie giving him a traditional slap makes you terrified he could be killed .
he would last for another fifteen years after the completion of this film , eventually passing away from a heart attack in 1965. it 's upsetting to think of such cherished performers growing old and dying painful deaths .
and it 's distressing watching their deterioration , both in health , and in performance , on screen .
when i , and , i 'm sure , almost everyone else , likes to think of laurel and hardy , i think of way out west , busy bodies or our relations .
seeing them in such physical ill health and performing dire routines at the dog-end of their career is a blight on my happy memories of them.the warning signs are clear right from the opening credits , which list not only four writers , but also someone to come up with the concept , and a credit for `` gags '' .
so if monty collins was writing the `` gags '' , then what were the other four writing ?
and in that case , why was monty collins paid a fee , given that there 's no evidence of a single `` gag '' in the whole film ?
over 40 % of the movie is spent travelling to the eponymous island , during which we experience some of the most painfully unfunny scenes the boys were ever involved in .
when i saw the bat scene i wanted to curl up and die , so great was its childish ineptitude .
yet what kills the film stone dead is that all of the support cast are dubbed , unable to speak english .
not only does this make the film disjointed , but also it severely depletes stan and ollie 's reactions to their co-stars .
flatly directed with appalling film stock and absolutely atrocious editing , this totally belies the rumoured $ 2 million that was spent on it .
frankly , it looks terrible , and while a dvd release might clean up the picture , the sound and image quality is vastly inferior to any of their hal roach work.stan and ollie 's `` friends '' , giovani and antoine are charisma-free bores who stand out greatly against laurel and hardy 's outdated repertoire .
this is another major problem with the film , in that none of the supporting characters are funny , or keyed in to the boys ' innocent mentality .
the dubbed harshness shown to l & h ( `` you - the fat one '' ) makes them stand out as isolated social misfits , rather than loveable sub-anarchists .
there is evidence of some darker political satire - though duck soup this ai n't - and the concept of an island with no rules is an interesting topic .
perhaps more relevant now than it ever was , a film that looks at the problems of immigration and the american constitution suddenly becomes most topical in 2003. sadly , however , beyond an amusing scene where stan is elected `` the people '' , this does n't really go anywhere .
and this somewhat black humour does have its harsh edges - or is a laurel and hardy movie where rape is directly implied and stan threatens a man with a bottle , only to accidentally glass someone in the face , your idea of a good time ?
after all the years of stan and ollie sharing a bed , we also get a definite reference , with stan accidentally kissing him - ollie wipes off the kiss in disgust .
also worrying is the implication that stan and ollie 's illegal immigrant friend , antoine , ends his life being eaten by a lion .
mind you , i never thought i 'd see a laurel and hardy movie where they were due to be hanged , either .
the need for the intrusive and unfunny narration is a further pointer to how messy the whole thing is , with the american release ( the same version available on video ) hacking out 16 minutes in a vain attempt to improve it.almost completely unwatchable , this horrifically made , relentlessly unfunny movie serves only to tarnish the reputation of stan and ollie - avoid at all costs .