there are many different versions of this one floating around , so make sure you can locate one of the unrated copies , otherwise some gore and one scene of nudity might be missing .
some versions also omit most of the opening sequence and other bits here and there .
the cut i saw has the on-screen title witchcraft : evil encounters and was released by shriek show , who maintain the original us release title witchery for the dvd release .
it 's a nice-looking print and seems to have all of the footage , but has some cropping/aspect ratio issues .
in italy , it was released as la casa 4 ( witchcraft ) .
the first two la casa releases were actually the first two evil dead films ( retitled ) and the third la casa was another film by the same production company ( filmirage ) , which is best known here in america as ghosthouse .
to make matters even more confusing , witchery was also released elsewhere as ghosthouse 2. except in germany , where ghosthouse 2 is actually the ogre : demons 3. ok , i better just shut up now .
i 'm starting to confuse myself !
regardless of the title , this is a very hit-or-miss horror effort .
some of it is good , some of it is n't .
i actually was into this film for the first half or so , but toward the end it became a senseless mess .
a large , vacant hotel located on an island about 50 miles from boston is the setting , as various people get picked off one-by-one by a german- speaking witch ( hildegard knef ) .
photographer gary ( david hasselhoff ) , who wants to capture `` witch light , '' and his virginal writer girlfriend ( leslie cumming ) , who is studying witchcraft , are shacking up at the hotel without permission .
along comes real estate agent jerry ( rick farnsworth ) , who 's showing off the property to potential buyers rose ( annie ross ) and freddie ( robert champagne ) brooks .
also tagging along are their children ; pregnant grown daughter jane ( linda blair ) and very young son tommy ( michael manchester ) , as well as oversexed architect linda sullivan ( catherine hickland - hasselhoff 's wife at the time ) .
once everyone is inside , their boat driver is killed ( hung ) and the boat disappears , so they find themselves trapped and basically at the mercy of the `` lady in black .
`` so what can you expect to find here ?
plenty of unpleasantries !
one of the characters has their lips sewn shut and is then hung upside down in the fireplace and accidentally slow-roasted by the rest of the cast .
there 's also a crucifixion , witches eating a dead baby , a swordfish through the head , someone set on fire , a possession , a sesame street tape recorder , the virgin getting raped by some demon , a guys veins bulging and exploding thanks to voodoo doll pokes and some other stuff .
from a technical standpoint , it 's a nice-looking film with pretty good cinematography , a decent score and good gore effects .
the hotel/island setting is also pretty nice .
blair ( particularly at the end ) and ross both seem like they 're having fun and knef is great as the evil witch .
even though people like to ridicule hasselhoff these days , he 's not bad in his role , either.on the down side , despite all the gore , the film seems somewhat dull and it gets monotonous after about an hour .
the supernatural themes are muddled and confusing , too .
when characters are being swept into the witches lair to be tortured and killed , the filmmakers unwisely decided to superimpose the screaming actors over some silly looking red spiral vortex effect that looks supremely cheesy .
and the witch lair itself is vacant and cheaply designed with unfinished lumber .
and while most of the cast is at least decent , a few of the performances ( particularly the `` actress '' who plays hasselhoff 's girlfriend and the kid ) are so bad they 're constantly distracting .