usually when i do n't see a show on an original run , i find it later on cable and realize it 's a gem .
the `` gimore girls '' is one of those rare exceptions .
i 'm glad i missed it.i truly despise shows that fill every minute of the actors space with rambling , stupid , boring banter .
this is one hour of just that .
the mother , lorelei , made me wonder if she is bipolar and off her lithium .
she never stopped talking ; every minute , every second , talking to every person she interacted with .
worse yet , her speech is childish and soooo , like , valley girl .
she talked about guys , her hair , her mother , her clothes .
like , what 's the sitch ?
?
( for situation ) .
i 've watched this show three times and still do n't get the point of this series .
it 's not a comedy , it 's not a drama , it has no point except to make three generations of females in one family look like the `` girls '' from planet mars .
the males by comparison are smart and make the show somewhat watchable .
if lorelei ever existed and attempted to latch onto me with conversation , i 'd have to mace her to get rid of her .
she obviously does n't know how to take a subtle hint to stop talking and start listening to someone else .
she also does n't know how to really notice the existence of others.in one show lorelei comes home from a date close to 10 pm .
she got the date after pursuing a guy she met at an auction .
she goes into her daughter 's room where the daughter asks how it went .
she dithers on about how boring the guy was .
her date somehow got a few words in edgewise .
lorelei complained about how the man did n't stop talking ( choke ) .
hopefully the date learned how fortunate he was.one other person here commented on how the mother acts like a teen and the daughter is the adult personality .
lorelei even dresses like her kid .
this obviously 40-something mom dresses and looks like she hit the mall with her high school pals in tow.i thought that this show should have been followed by `` just shoot me , '' because that 's exactly how i felt .