oh my ... bad clothing , worse synth music and the worst : david hasselhoff .
the 80 's are back with vengeance in witchery , an american-italian co-production , helmed by infamous joe 'd'amato on the production side and short-careered director ( thank heavens for small miracles ) fabrizio laurenti directing .
marketed as a kind of sequel to sam raimi 's evil dead series in italy ( that was dubbed `` la casa '' in there ) , witchery delivers some modest gore groceries and bad acting.a mix of ghost story , possessions and witchcraft , the film bounces clueless from scene to another without letting some seriously wooden actors and hilarious day and night mix-ups slow it 's progress to expectable ending , topped with some serious wtf surprise climax .
( i just love the look on her face ... ) surprisingly laurenti manages to gather some suspense and air of malice in few - very few - scenes ; unluckily for him , these few glimpses of mild movie magic go down quickly and effectively.the plus sides are experienced , when the gore hits the fan .
this department is quite effective and entertaining in that classic latex and red paint style of the 80 's italo-gore , when things were made 100 % hand-made and as shockingly and vivid as modest budgets could allow .
i could only watch with sadistic glee and few laughters all the over-the-top ways that obnoxious characters ( and actors ) got mangled and misused , one by one .
i only felt sorry for linda blair , who apparently have n't been let to try any other than that good old possessed girl / woman role ever in his career , or so it looks like when checking out his filmography.well , folks - not much more to tell , and even less to tell home about .
do n't expect too much when spending some rainy afternoon with this , and probably you 'll experience at least some mild fun .
it also helps if your rotten little heart pounds in the beat of 80 's euro gore horror .
and speaking of hearts - every movie that has david hasselhoff getting skewered by a sizeable metal object and bleeding heavily around the room and corridors , must have it 's one on the right place.this is my truth - what is yours ?