it is hard for a lover of the novel northanger abbey to sit through this bbc adaptation and to keep from throwing objects at the tv screen-in fact , if jane austen herself were to see this , she would be somewhat amused and possibly put out .
maggie wadey 's adaptation has made northanger abbey into what it satirized , the gothic novel ( and the readers of gothic novels ) .the role of catherine morland in the adaptation is portrayed fairly closely to austen 's catherine , a open-hearted , generous girl whose imagination simply runs away with her .
but the henry tilney of the novel is not a snuff-taking , cane-wielding , sappy-line-making hero of a gothic novel-he is a tease , a nearly-handsome man with a messy room and a living ( that 's right , henry tilney is a clergyman , a charm that is completely dropped from the script ) .
some of the best scenes from novel , when henry , completely deadpan , outrageously teases the literally-minded catherine on diction , journals , mrs. radcliffe , etc.
, are not portrayed in the adaptation .
a large section of henry 's personality is lost when those scenes are not adapted .
besides , peter firth 's appearance is not accurate-henry tilney is supposed to be 24 or 25 , dark hair and a brown skin , not 35 or 40 and blond.there are so many other absurdities within the adaptation that invoke surprise and disgust-who is the marchioness , and what is she doing in the story ?
!
why is john thorpe less of a dunce and more of a schemer ?
why is northanger abbey a castle ?
catherine of the novel , with her romantic visions , expects hidden passages and dark tapestries , but is very disappointed to discover that northanger abbey is actually a comfortable , modern house-another element of satire !
why portray general tilney as a drunk ?
why does catherine have those strange visions of mrs. allen threading her finger , etc.
?
catherine 's imagination only runs away with her at northanger , with henry there to correct her gently .
and lastly , why are so many facts concerning the tilney family and mrs. tilney 's death altered unnecessarily ?
to make the story more `horrible ? '
all of these oddities and more simply are too strange to be overlooked .
>