this movie started off well enough , sticking to the mood of the book fairly well even if the acting was not top notch .
the soundtrack was torturously bad .
saxaphone and electric guitars ?
it was gratingly incongruous .
the female singer was positively dreary !
in the second half of the film the story takes a decidedly darker turn .
too dark for austen .
northanger abbey is made a dark and scary place whereas in the book it was disappointingly tame and modernized to catherine 's eyes.who in the heck is this marchioness with the ghastly makeup and wig ?
a totally extraneous and unnecessary character.one of the key elements in the book is the general is not a gothic monster like the characters in catherine 's books .
his monstrosity is far more complicated in his oppression of his children 's spirits and his treatment of catherine based on money concerns alone .
he does not lock up his wife or kill her but he does send miss morland on a 70 mile trip alone in a hired carriage with not enough money to pay her way home .
only her friend miss tilney 's thoughtfulness in handing her some money on the way out the door saves her from being stranded .
this whole point gets seriously muddled in the film .
they make the general too dark from the outset.peter firth should have not sung !
this part was painful to watch .
his depiction of tilney was n't too bad but it was a shade dark in places .
henry tilney of the book made sport of miss morland 's imagination on trip to northanger but he was never dark .
firth would have benefited from better direction .
the young lady who played isabella needed a better acting coach .
john thorpe was appropriately odious .
the striped waistcoat and coattails combo he wore was ghastly !
it certainly fit his character.i think the film would have fared much better with a completely different soundtrack .
it cast an oppressive pall over the entire movie .
if i watch it again it will be with the sound off and subtitles on .
perhaps i would give the film a 4 then.the sound quality of the dvd was quite poor .
the picture quality was not much better .
this is glaringly noticeable on a digital television.when i think of what this film could have been , i think of persuasion with amanda root and ciaran hinds .