my mom , my cousins , and i are pretty big jane austen fans .
we know all the words to the 1995 pride and prejudice masterpiece , and have watched gwyneth paltrow 's emma an embarrassing number of times .
i 've read all the books , and i 've even sat through sense and sensibility and persuasion a few times .
so my mom and i thought it would be nice to see northanger abbey on film.bad idea !
this is just about the worst movie i 've ever seen .
it 's even worse than the 1998 version of alice through the looking glass , or the 1939 nancy drew movie i bought at wal-mart for $ 1 ( my previous `` worst movies . ''
) the first thing wrong , which you notice in the opening scene , is that the `` heroine , '' catherine , has a gruesome and weird imagination , inspired by trashy novels that a jane austen heroine would never touch .
throughout the novel , she has dreams ( day and night ) in which she is carried off by some hideous man with a greasy wig , dragged across a field headed for god-knows-what-all , and suddenly rescued by a dashing guy on a white horse.the second thing any viewer of the movie will instantly notice is the high-pitched wailing and saxophone music that is supposed to be the soundtrack .
no dainty classical music or english country dances here !
it is also evident , almost at first glance , that the actress ( for lack of a better word ) chosen to play catherine is completely off .
first , she is rather unattractive , and is rendered even more so by her un-austenlike behavior .
her looks and movements are just wacky !
plus , they 're completely affected and unbelievable.this sad lack of acting skills affects pretty much all of the actors in the film .
not even mr. tilney , the supposed `` dashing young suitor '' is decent.as more and more characters are introduced , a strange taste in costumes on the part of the filmmakers becomes evident .
huge , marie antoinette-style headdresses clash with the ( for the most part ) correctly styled empire gowns .
a french woman , apparently a friend of general tilney 's , is made up all in black as some sort of ancient goth nightmare -- she bears a striking similarity to michael jackson in a black dress .
her appearance is made even sillier by a huge half-moon beauty mark on her cheek .
i also had to wonder about the historical accuracy of the bright red lipstick that almost all of the women were wearing.another anomaly that kept my mom and i howling with laughter for about ten minutes was the `` bathing '' scene .
the first thing we noticed was that men and women were bathing in a big bathhouse together -- probably not very likely in the early 1800s .
then we saw that all the women seemed to be wearing large china or plastic plates , worn around their necks with strings .
the plates floated horizontally on the water , containing some mysterious pieces of ... something .
we guessed it was soap , then aromatic herbs , then finally , when the mystery substance began disappearing between shots , we deduced it was food .
but i 'm still not sure.and that 's not even half of what 's wrong with northanger abbey .
my warning to anyone who is considering renting this movie : stay your hand .
and if anyone is considering buying it -- well , i do n't even know what to say to that.you 'd think that when the actors and others making this film got about 1/4 of the way through , they 'd realize what a monster they were creating and stop .
unfortunately , they did n't , and northanger abbey was let out into the world .