this move is bad on so many levels i do n't even know where to start .
ok - the good points - peebles is beautiful as a dirty outlaw in black leather .
some of the landscape photography was stunning .
that 's about it .
oh , and it was a nice touch having the buffalo head above the bar door in freemanville , i figure it was a nod to the buffalo soldiers .
the movie starts sort of ok but the characters are so flat , so comic book , so 'much ' , the bad guys are just over the top bad , i choke trying to describe them further .
the spanish-cuban-american war was 1895-1898 with america being involved only in april to august of '98 .
i think the movie said it took place in 1893 ( i could be wrong but i do n't want to look at it again to check ) .
a big part of this movie hinged on the kkk killing jessie 's daddy .
well boys , the original kkk started in 1865 and was destroyed by president andrew johnson in 1871. the klan was n't even around during the time period of this movie .
of course the nasty bas**rds got busy again in 1915 and we know the rest of that .
but for the purpose of the movie it is historically incorrect and that was a major part of the plot .
i think i could make myself crazy going into it a lot more so here a few jabs and i 'm done .
i did n't know that boyz2men and other bands like that got their inspiration from new orleans street singers from the 1890 's .
i also did n't know that fetish necklaces were all the rage for sioux women in the 1890 's ... but then i was surprised to see a bar singer doing jazz while wearing acrylic 1 '' nails ... we just about died laughing and i like a cheesy western more than most people do .
such a waste of talent and money - this really had the chance to show a part of american history that is n't well known .
http : //www.coax.net/people/lwf/bkcwboy2.htm for some more information .
this could have been so good but it was just ... .bad from 1-10 this gets a 1 instead of a zero because mario looks good in his hat and there was an appaloosa horse in the film .