ok , so my summary line is a cheap trick .
but the movie is full of them and it gets absurdly praised , so ... i caught this one on tv ( uncut , as tv here shows all movies , that 's for you americans who might say i did n't like it because i saw a cut tv version - fortunately that 's only an us thing ) , and had no idea about what it was .
i switched on , caught the last minutes of a show , and the movie began .
within a minute , i was begging it was a comedy , given the particularly ridiculous clichéd beginning ( yes , it 's a bad movie-within-the-movie , i know , but what a way to try to keep the viewer interested !
i do n't even know why i did n't switch channels ) .
and , yes , in fact the movie turned out to be a comedy , albeit an unintentional one.marina zudina is pretty enough , but gosh , what a dreadful performance !
while casting a foreigner in the role is smart enough ( she does n't talk so bye bye language barrier ) , yet , sorry , marina baby , playing mute does n't mean impersonating harpo marx .
her acting is unintentionally funny in many moments , just look at her when she draws an x in the air while stalked by the killer .
he wants to kill you , it 's no time to play zorro .
we get plenty of `` running upstairs '' stuff passing for tension , as in the worst slashers , and things like pulling a carpet and a bad guy shots the other .
ugh !
will hollywood ever learn ?
yet the best/worst pearl is having a guy electrocuted in a bathtub and ... well , i have never seen anyone being electrocuted to death in a bathtub , but i 'm sure you ca n't see the blue cartoon rays in real life , do you ?
and how about immediately trusting a mean-looking guy because he says he 's a cop , and not asking him to show you his credentials ?
ok , so he turns out to be a real cop .
but still , not asking for the badge makes no sense ( plot-wise , we could always think the credentials might be phony or he might be a crooked cop .
screen writing 101 ) .
and how about the big twist ?
do n't tell me you did n't see that coming from 200 miles away ... i feel sorry for poor old alec guinness and his useless stock footage cameo .
now i think about this , what 's the point in giving him a `` mystery guest star '' credit ... in the end titles ?
the movie 's over , there 's no mystery anymore , and everybody and their brother have identified guinness ( even non-movie buffs will recognize `` the old guy from 'star wars ' '' ) .
yet better off this way , so we can pretend it 's not the late great actor.people keep comparing this to , of all people , hitchcock .
i suppose it has to be john hitchcock the milkman , as the late sir alfred would feel embarrassed out of watching this , let alone making it .
and this gets a 6.8/10 ?
?
?
?
it 's bottom 100 material !
but then , we 're talking a rating system that allows 'the lord of the rings : the return of the king ' to appear as the third best movie ever made ( check top 100 ) , so ... 2/10 .