how truly sad that this sprung from the same mind as donnie darko , possibly one of the best films in this genre .
where do i even begin ?
i think one of the must infuriating aspects of the film is that we are supposed to be critiquing humanity , and yet we see no humanity in the film .
no more than 5 minutes of the film is spend agonizing about the possible death of another human .
these are horrible one dimensional cardboard cutouts of human beings .
sadly , that 's how they are played with what can only be described as dreadful acting .
is this truly how kelly sees humanity ?
judging from the reaction of viewers , this is a horrible encapsulation of humanity .
why do n't the characters in the film ask the questions that all the viewers have ?
this is not an indictment of humanity .
it 's an indictment of the straw men that kelly sets up who bare almost no resemblance to real humans in this situation.to those who say this was a wonderful thought-provoking film , to what are you comparing it ?
armageddon ?
i even saw someone compare this to the works of kurosawa .
how truly deprived must you be to think that this would promote good existential discussion ?
for the love of all that 's good in film !
even indecent proposal is ten times the indictment of humanity that this is .
there we see people truly agonizing about greed and the human condition .
yes , even indecent proposal puts this film to shame for philosophical discussion and yet it gets 5.3 vs 6.0 for this mindless tripe.rarely have i seen a more pretentious , pontificating , and self aggrandizing , film fall so flatly on its face .
this has the depth of a high school film project , and a poor one at that .
truly , that 's about the level of the discussion promoted by this film .
if you want to see good psychological film making , do yourself a favor and check out das experiment .
if the box had lived up even to this one goal , i would have been willing to forgive some of the atrocious acting , gaping plot holes , and sheer nonsensical storyline .
sadly , it ca n't even do that.the true indictment of humanity is that there are people out there who think this film is a deeply delving introspective look into the human condition .
this is not sartre !
this is not even the cliff notes version of sartre !
this is a hastily conceived and hack-written 9th grade term paper on sartre based on some internet message board ramblings .
if sartre were alive , he would sue kelly for defamation .