first time i ever felt i needed to write a review.i have seen thousands of movies in my life and i like a wide range of movies .
i am reasonably opened minded , and can easily say i enjoyed a movie while still saying `` yeah it was not good but i enjoyed it '' .
i can appreciate the mastery of great movies like the shaw shank redemption , the godfather , and american history x. i can like good movies in a genre like horror , or comedy , even if the movie might not be that great .
i can even enjoy a bad movie that just happens to entertain me ( bloodsport ) .
i also will try to rate movie fairly even if i did not like it .
city lights by charlie chapin was not a movie i enjoyed , but i can appreciate the acting and story lines for the time.i think some people when they go on this site instead of randomly click a rating , should take a few ideas into account .
try to rate the movie based on how good it actually was .
do not let your personal bias affect the rating .
also look at other moves you rated and compare the movie you are going to rate.this `` movie '' was the worst piece of trash i have ever seen .
2 hours of my life where just stolen .
the acting was awful , across the board .
the scenes where choppy at best .
however the real disgrace was the story .
the first 20 minutes we actually had a story that tried to make sense and take the viewer from point a to b. however after that it was a nightmare .
they kept trying to add new elements but nothing was every explained .
nothing really ever made sense , was steward dead , is he alive , did he hit by lighting , was it really lighting , was it aliens , is he an alien , etc .
the ending tied nothing together and really did not answer any questions .
the only positive was nobody cared we where just happy to leave the theater.6.5/10 ?
?
?
what is wrong with some of you ?
i will admit that the 8 of us where so mad about seeing this , we did think `` what would make it better ?
`` , and we decide to tell a few of our friends that this movie was good so they would have to suffer and see this movie .
what can i say misery loves company .
that is really the only reason i can see for a 6.5 rating.do not waste your life !