before you dismiss my post as `` not getting it '' , let me say ... i 'm one of the biggest richard kelly and `` the twilight zone '' fans out there .
donnie darko is one my all-time favorites and i even thought southland tales had it 's moments .
i 'm a huge sci-fi fan .
i was very excited to see `` the box '' , could n't wait for it to come out.having said that ... '' the box '' is terrible .
behind `` drag me to hell '' , this was the worst movie i 've seen in 2009. and it just simply will not end !
whenever you think you 've reached the end , another change in the plot and you 're off to more torture .
i was actually groaning in the theater by the end of the film ... i could hardly take it anymore.the biggest problem with `` the box '' , no matter how you slice it or try to justify it , is that it simply makes little sense .
trust me , i `` got it '' , i understood what was going on .
but that does n't mean it makes a lot of sense looking back on it .
take the basics for example .
the main couple ... cameron diaz and james marsden , playing norma and arthur lewis .
diaz loses her finances at her job , then bemoans to her husband that they are `` living paycheck to paycheck '' .
well , sell that f-ing porsche your husband is driving then !
!
!
they live in a beautiful 2-story house in a nice subdivision .
marsden is working what seems to be a high-paid job at nasa and diaz is an accomplished teacher .
and , yes , marsden drives an overly expensive car .
but they are somehow living paycheck to paycheck ?
!
?
no need to press the button , just cut down your high-priced lifestyle a bit !
the movie would have worked better if they showed the couple jobless and in serious debt .
instead , they are seemingly desperate for money ... all the while living what i would call a luxurious lifestyle .
like i said ... you can understand what 's going on , yet it still makes little sense !
that 's a rare combination.there was an awful scene in a library that i feel will go down as one of the worst segments in movie history ( terribly acted too by the way ) .
it was idiotic , illogical and out of place .
i ca n't even begin to fully describe it actually , so i will move onto a subplot that involves nose-bleeds and body possession by aliens .
( yes , i 'm being serious unfortunately ) .
a kid is in diaz 's class with a wicked and smile on his face ( a sinister smile that seemingly goes by completely unnoticed by everyone in authority at the school ) .
he starts asking diaz personal questions , literally embarrassing her in front of her class .
no punishment is given to the kid whatsoever ... he did n't even get asked to stay after class for a talk !
then diaz is at a party ... and the same kid is one of the hired help ... ironed shirt , apron and all !
i do n't know many alien-possessed kids ( who appear to be in junior high ) that also moonlight as a bus-boy at parties sponsored by teachers and school officials ... but we found one here !
( see what i mean ... you can understand it completely , but it still makes no sense ... a rare combo ! )
like many things in the movie , the kid comes and goes ... no real explanation about him , no ending to his character .
moving on ... a lady then approaches diaz in a grocery store , telling her that experiments are being ran secretly and her family is one of the test subjects .
well ... hmmm ... if aliens possess the powers where they can take over a body remotely ... and the aliens do n't want to help diaz ... then who was taking over this lady 's body and giving diaz advice ?
!
again ... the lady was trying to help diaz ... and the aliens were n't interested in helping diaz ... so who the hell was controlling her body ?
!
never explained .
never talked about again .
no nothing !
!
it goes on and on and on like this for , what seemed to me like , 2 weeks .
it would not end !
i wonder if this movie underwent a massive re-shoot at some point .
it was poorly edited .
diaz 's accent was there one minute , gone the next .
sub-plots began but never ended .
the numerous push-backs of the release date obviously shows the problems the producers had with the finished product .
it 's truly a train-wreck.pass on this one ... there 's no redeeming value in it whatsoever .
3 out of 10 , just because i like diaz and sci-fi !
but it probably deserves a 1 out of 10.thanks for reading !
jd