ha ha .
- oh no - what to say about this film ?
yes - green eggs and ham makes more sense than this movie .
where does one start ?
a lot of the good stuff has already been said - so i wo n't divulge into the same territory .
i believe you already have the movie summary - so i wo n't paraphrase the movie.first - let 's start the with good.1 ) .
if you like psychological thrillers that make you think ( as i do ) the first 29 minutes of this film will be for you - this is one of those films that illustrates the question that you always talked about on long car drives when you were kids like ( what if you had to chose one family member live , another to die , or , what if you had to die by drowning or fire ) this movie is a great concept - bottom line.2 ) the wardrobe group did a fine job with bringing us back to the 70 's .
realistically though , how difficult is that to accomplish ?
... ..okay , that 's about all for the good .
let 's talk about the bad.1 ) .
this movie feels like a 2 hour `` twilight zone '' episode .
this could easily be 90 minutes .
that might have made the movie tolerable.2 ) .
do you remember in the movie `` from dusk til dawn ? ''
.
the movie started out interesting , then halfway through the movie it just took a degrading turn ?
yep - same thing here .
i would venture to say that the writers started with a concept , then had no idea what to do with it .
i 've gotten deeper thought provocation out of transformers 2.3 ) .
yes - we get the dilemma in the film .
we understand the philosophical undertones and utilitarian approach - but the story jumped around way too much , did n't elaborate on the current story arc , and took a ( forgive me ) completely insulting direction.4 ) .
the ending did n't make sense .
not at all .
none.this movie would make a great term paper in college philosophy 101. if you 're board out of your mind , in bed sick , or have ever enjoyed being hit in the face with a pie , and can view this free on-line - by all means , go for it.if you need to pay anything to view this movie , do n't waste your time - you 're better off watching old howie mandel stand-up on you tube .
you will get more philosophical stimulation reorganizing your sock drawer .