be warned , the next time you see `` richard kelly '' involved in any production , run away .
fast.kelly proved to the world after his last movie , `` southland tales '' , that he is one pretentious director .
it was indulgent and convoluted .
in `` the box '' , not much has changed.i can picture what his pitch to warner bros must have been , and i bet the executives at the studio ate it right up : a full-feature film based on one of richard `` twilight zone '' matheson 's old short stories.big mistake !
do not read any further unless you want this movie completely spoiled for you : norma ( cameron diaz ) pushes the button .
turns out that arlington steward ( frank langella ) has an alien using his body as a vessel to conduct `` experiments '' in which the fate of mankind rests .
his face is scarred because he was struck by alien lightening , which killed him , but then brought him back to life to do all of this red button testing .
obviously since norma pushes the button , knowing full well that someone may die , she must suffer the consequences for failing to consider someone else 's life instead of her own .
in the end she and her husband ( james marsden ) choose to kill norma instead of having their son grow up deaf and blind.kelly dances around his film 's `` message '' , trying to make the audience figure out what the moral of the story is .
obviously , any person with a brain is saying at the beginning , `` what if i was the person who dies ? ''
.
richard kelly does n't even let his character 's have this normal , human conversation .
in fact , they avoid it all together .
they appear to both be educated , working at a prestigious school and also for nasa , so why would n't they both have a better ability to look outside of the box ?
?
?
if he had the main characters actually have this conversation , the entire movie could have ended right there !
instead , we have to watch weddings go on forever , nasa and the nsa be complacent to arlington stewart taking over these government programs , teleportation to show marsden life beyond our world so it will be `` easier '' to kill his wife , and drone 's controlled by steward which can be anywhere and nowhere , at any time.the most painful part of this movie is the pacing .
nothing really happens .
its a muddled mish-mash of ideas that are laughable.it is insufferable how this film is being marketed .
the commercials make it look like `` saw '' and even use the music from those films to sell it .
in reality what you get is a slow , dull , laughable ( yes , half the theater was laughing at the acting and visual effects ) , and messy film which is neither imaginative , interesting , nor cohesive .
at one point , cameron diaz and her son are abducted and then suddenly , she is back in the nsa 's big black car with her husband on the way home .
where did she go ?
why did they take her ?
do we really care ?
not anymore you won't.by the end you really wo n't care what happens to any of the characters .
you will be rooting for all of them to die so the film will just end .
go see anything else that 's playing .
do n't waste your time , or money .