in 1976 a mother named norma lewis ( cameron diaz ) lives with her son walter and her husband arthur ( james marsden ) .
one night a box is placed on the doorstep of their home and the following morning they cut open the box to reveal a button device that must be opened with a key .
by the late afternoon , a man with terrible scarring on his face comes to their door and presents norma with an offer .
this man is arlington steward ( frank langella ) and he announces that if they push the button someone in the world that the family does not know will die and they will receive a million dollars in cash .
if they do n't press it , nothing will happen and the offer will move on to someone else .
norma and arthur are not allowed to tell anyone including their son about this deal .
the incentive for the family to push the button is heightened by their financial difficulties .
arthur , who is currently working for nasa , fails to be accepted into a new job he applies for and norma , who is a teacher , learns that her faculty funding is being cut.one 's enjoyment for this bizarre sci-fi thriller , based on the short story `` button button '' by richard matheson , will be determined by how far they are willing to take this ludicrous premise .
the opening of the film is particularly problematic in grounding itself in a sense of realism with the household .
richard kelly 's previous film donnie darko cleverly used the condition of schizophrenia to justify its excursion into paranormal activity and parallel universes .
without the dream-like state of that far superior film , the box and the very thought of a device that can kill anyone in the world , is entirely implausible .
that norma would also accept someone into her house that has almost the same scarring as two-face from the dark knight and believe this offer , seems equally contrived.if this sounds unlikely so far , what follows is even more absurd , involving a conspiracy about someone who was struck by lightning , the possibility of alien life or some other godly being influencing these situations .
scenes involving gateways opening up in public libraries , random nose bleeds and mindless drones stalking the lewis family , become almost unintentionally comical in their absurdity .
to a point , the film could be called intriguing purely to see where it is going .
kelly is occasionally clever in his ability to hold our attention through many of the films contrivances .
in one scene norma is teaching a class and then is asked by a strange boy about her foot .
he taunts her about it as she is missing four of her toes .
later , at a rehearsal dinner for a wedding that norma and arthur are attending , this same student appears as a waiter and seems to be stalking them .
yet the eventual justification for these all of these oddities is wrapped up in a highly contrived sci-fi revelation that many will find implausible and difficult to swallow.what is most disappointing about the film is that once the button is pressed surprisingly early on , many of the moral implications that were initially promised are diminished for much of pictures duration .
the ending , which wo n't be spoilt here , resurfaces these moral questions again in the hope of echoing that of a greek tragedy .
while the resemblances can be seen , by this point , given the unlikelihood of so much of the film and the uneven performances , there is little reason to care .
cameron diaz 's southern accent might be unnecessary but it is surprisingly langella who is the most disappointing in the film , with a very unsubtly written role , as the mysterious scarred man , who seems to be hiding a military base that would make dr. evil proud .
it really is just a shadow of his towering performance in frost/nixon .
there is not a lot for many of the other actors in the film to do ; in particular both norma and arthur could not be regarded as characters but mouthpieces for kelly 's pastiche of ideas .
underdeveloped and brief conversations , such as where norma sympathises with arlington over their deformities and also when norma and arthur question whether they really know each other in case the button kills either of them , highlights this.since 2001 , richard kelly has failed to make a film that has lived up to the quality and the imagination of donnie darko .
though this film might be intriguing for a little while , it is too absurd and implausible to be fully enjoyed and it would certainly not warrant multiple viewings given the film 's rather illogical revelations .
science fiction fans might be able to appreciate it somewhat more and draw their own conclusions , but what kelly is really trying to say beneath the surface remains cryptic .
the box is one film this year that should have been shelved .