set in 1976 for no apparent reason other than to keep the set dressers busy , 'the box ' was directed by richard kelly ( 'donnie darko ' ) , and stars cameron diaz and james marsden as norma and arthur lewis , a young couple who are supposedly struggling financially even though they both have successful careers -- she as a high school teacher , he as an optical specialist at nasa 's langley , virginia , research center .
they have one child , walter ( sam oz stone ) .one day the lewises find a parcel on their doorstep , containing a black box with a big red button .
there is a note from a 'mr .
steward ' indicating that he will return at 5:00 pm to explain about the box.the mysterious arlington steward , played by frank langella , shows up at the appointed time , nattily attired in an elegant savile row suit .
he is polite but businesslike , however his most noticeable feature is his face , half of which appears to have been blown off and improperly attended to .
langella is the only thing worth watching in the movie , however he is unfortunately upstaged by his own makeup , which resembles that of harvey 'two face ' dent ( aaron eckhart ) from christopher nolan 's 'the dark knight . '
it 's like the elephant in the room : one can try to ignore it , but it 's more than a little distracting.steward explains that he will return in 24 hours to collect the button .
if , during that time , they decide to unlock and push the button , he will give them $ 1 million cash .
the only catch -- and it 's a big one -- is that somewhere a stranger will die .
it might be across town , it might be on another continent , however steward assures them the victim will be someone unknown to them .
as a show of good faith , he leaves them with a crisp $ 100 bill , theirs to keep whether they push the button or not.arthur and norma are skeptical , believing the whole thing to be a scam or an elaborate hoax , however it is n't long before they begin to wonder what would happen if they did push the button ?
would they really get a million dollars ?
would somebody really die ?
weary of the speculation , norma slaps the button .
nothing happens .
however , their initial relief gives way to alarm when steward shows up the next day with a briefcase full of cash .
they decide to call the whole thing off , however steward tells them it 's too late .
`` you 've already pushed the button , '' he explains .
as steward 's limo pulls away , arthur notes the license number , which he later discovers is registered to the nsa ( national security agency ) .at this point the film begins to veer deeply into unfollowable territory as the secondary characters start springing nosebleeds and flashing peace signs .
meanwhile , the town becomes invaded by pudgy , slack-jawed geeks in bad shirts who start following arthur around like an advance scouting party for a race of zombie alien nerds .
arthur eventually becomes trapped by the menacing bookworms in the library ( ? )
, where steward 's spinsterish wife shows up -- whom we have n't seen till now -- and informs arthur that in order to get out of the library he must step into one of three vertical columns of cheesy-looking digital water effects .
'what happens if i choose the wrong one ? '
, arthur asks , seeming far less baffled than he ought to be under the circumstances , and certainly far less baffled than the audience is by this time .
'eternal damnation , ' the spinster says ominously.arthur steps into the middle column of digital liquid effects , and after a brief absence suddenly appears , still in his water cocoon , hovering over norma 's bed .
when she wakes up and sees him , the water bubble bursts and arthur tumbles onto the bed in a shower of water which , oddly enough , continues to drip from the overhead water pipes just out of camera range while a sodden marsden and diaz flop around on the bed.it 's confusing , i know.we eventually learn that steward was once the public relations officer for the nsa , until he was struck by a lightning bolt that destroyed part of his face .
he was pronounced dead , but later came back to life , having been transformed into a sort of superman who now serves 'the ones who make the lightning , ' and whose powers have enabled him to take over the cia , the nsa , and nasa all by himself.and what is the point of all this nattering rubbish ?
apparently , steward 's mission is to subject humans to a kind of biblical character test ( e.g.
, the 'binding of isaac ' ) , to determine whether humanity is worth saving .
if enough people pass the button test by refusing to push it , steward 's god-like overlords will spare the race .
unfortunately , those people who do push the button , such as norma and arthur , must be punished for their moral spinelessness , to which end they are subjected to a series of dreary 'lady or the tiger ' ordeals that play out like one of those 'saw movies , ' except without the entertaining gore or the benefit of a coherent plot .
'the box ' represents the sort of pointless mental masturbation that freshman philosophy students like to blather on about after a few beers .
richard kelly 's tedious exercise in existentialist pettifoggery eventually collapses under the weight of its own incomprehensibility ; the tortured melange of insupportable ideas eventually congeals , as with the mixing together of too many colors , into a meandering gray goo of a film as insipid as one of those narcotizing in-flight movies the plot of which suffers no more or less from having been interrupted by a leisurely nap.there is a point in 'the box ' where arthur , who is a technically-minded guy , becomes curious about how the button works .
opening up the unit , he is disappointed to find nothing inside.having seen the box , i know exactly how he feels .