lately , i 've been watching a lot of westerns from the 1930s to the present .
there are some great low budget spaghetti westerns from the late 1960s and early 1970s .
this movie had all the elements of a decent western : a good story with talented actors and everything else .
although , it 's a spoof of this genre , and for me the way it was done just did n't work and made for a disappointing movie.this movie can easily be divided into two parts.the first part is great ; it has a great opening scene and an interesting story develops of a bounty hunter ( a.k.a .
the stranger ) going after a bandit who is going after a large bank shipment guarded , in part , by a banker .
over the course of the movie these three characters form shifting alliances in an attempt to get the money .
there are subtle comic nods to the contrivances of earlier films from this genre , but the comedy does n't disrupt the overall story.the second half of the film is where the comedy goes over-the-top and essentially ruins the movie .
the turning point is right at the part where the barmaid causally scolds the dwarf to stop shooting the customers as she goes about waiting on other patrons seemingly oblivious to the four dead bodies laying about the place .
from this point onward the movie shifts from a decent spaghetti western with comic undertones to a stupid-silly spoof.there are three horrible fist-fight scenes ( one at the river , one in the market and one at the baths ) that follow in rapid succession as if one was n't bad enough .
the fighting is so fake it 's ridiculous , and since the sound is out-of-sync with the picture it makes it even worse .
in the market fight scene the banker bounces about the place on hidden trampolines and twirls around on poles like he is in the circus ; it 's clownish .
although , the worst part of these fight scenes is the music ; it 's this light-hearted , sprightly mix more suited for a square dance or a cheesy episode of 'hee-haw ' .
these scenes practically derail the main story.overall , this movie was disappointing because it had a lot of potential as a decent western , but the comic turns just mucked it up .
if you want to see a good western spoof then see 'blazing saddles ' .
if you want to see a good spaghetti western , then avoid this movie .