the italians are undeniable masters in the questionable `` art '' of ripping off and imitating movies .
what they do is take an innovative , money-making and foreign concept , maintain the basic plot and just add a whole lot of action , sleaze and political incorrectness .
but what to do when the non-italian original is already a reputedly notorious film and quite difficult to surpass in terms of slop and controversy ?
well then , i guess , you simply disregard everything in terms of story-building or stylishness and fully focus on making something that is practically a porno movie !
this italian turkey was inspired by richard fleischer 's successful slavery-saga `` mandingo '' , released one year earlier , but since the makers were even too lazy to think up a different title , you should n't expect anything that even remotely resembles a narrative depth , character drawings , unsettling atmosphere or thought-provoking statements regarding cross cultural relationships .
`` mandinga '' is pure and simply a sexploitation effort where the plot only develops itself throughout the last ten minutes , in other words when you stopped caring a long time ago already .
the characters in this film are a gathering of despicable bastards , which is of course to expect when you 're dealing with wealthy and obnoxious white folks running a plantation in south america .
the elderly and supremely sleazy owner of the place is a widower ( who probably also won a couple of `` moustache-of-the-year '' awards ) who exploits and extendedly whips the slaves working for him .
his mistress , who if i understood correctly is also his cousin ( ? )
, is a genuine bitch of a woman who enjoys provoking arguments and sneaks out of the house overnight to copulate with crucified slaves .
when the plantation owner 's son returns from europe , after approximately 25 minutes of purely wasted running time , the plot slightly begin to develop itself at last .
the handsome young man has sex with the bitchy woman a couple of times ( even in front of the slaves , supposedly to `` demonstrate '' how their masters do it ) but eventually he falls in love with the cherubic preacher 's daughter .
his romantic preference obviously makes the bitchy woman mad with anger , and she plots a horribly cruel act of vengeance that will alter life on the plantation forever .
hey i just realized this brief description of the plot actually makes `` mandinga '' sound like an interesting film !
well , it 's not and i apologize if i raised anyone 's anticipations .
it 's an incredibly boring and hideous film to struggle through , but if the themes appeal to you , then definitely check out the aforementioned `` mandingo '' .
much rather than sick exploitation , that film is a truly insightful portrait of one of mankind darkest history pages and it was also a properly produced film , with real actors , great music and impressive filming locations .
`` mandinga '' has nothing , absolutely nothing to offer .