even those of us who like cute animal pictures -- - and i abhor them -- -would be hard pressed to find any merit in this abysmally bad travesty of a film .
perhaps inspired by `` 101 dalmatians '' with its smart and loyal dogs , its dumb and devious humans and its absurdly `` happy '' and predictable ending , the alternate title `` 101 turkeys '' springs to mind .
that would just about cover everyone involved in its unfortunate production .
i dismissed it as some inane hollywood perversion of british customs before learning , to my horror , that it actually is a canadian film , done in victoria bc , that phony british theme park of a town , while sucking tax dollars out of ottawa on , that equally phony pit of canadian mediocrity .
let me count the ways it is bad .
the dizzy plot ?
the asinine script ?
the dismal performances and sophomoric direction ?
the cloyingly clever animals ?
the endless clichés and predictable slapstick ?
on second thought , neither i nor those browsing the imdb have time for a complete catalogue of its failings .
yet were i to detail its merits , this space would remain blank .
trust me , it is bad ; a signal monument in the vast pantheon of truly terrible ( canadian ) cinema .
if you have seen it already , my condolences .
if you have not , stay away from it as you would sars or bubonic plague .
or other movies with cute animals .
do n't even let your children see it lest their tiny minds be warped by the even tinier minds of those who financed , fabricated and filmed this frightful folly .
perhaps tonight , when i retire , i will have a nightmare with ghastly fanged beasts springing from the bed table as i flee in frantic flight .
i hope so .
it will be a far far better thing i do than watch this beastly banal boondoggle .
but then , i might dream that i had to watch it a second time and the sheer terror and cold sweat of that makes me want to stay up all night , trembling at the very possibility of seeing it again even as a bad dream .
i might even find something worthwhile to watch in its stead .
maybe `` godzilla '' or `` attack of the killer tomatoes '' perhaps the instruction video for my built in vacuum cleaner .