`` the duke '' is a film based in the heart of the british aristocracy where an old duke ( john neville ) dies and to avoid his large property and the vast riches to be taken from him after death by 2 devious aristocrats ( oliver muirhead and sophie heyman ) ; he passes his dukeship down to his dog .
the dog 's `` best friend '' , an american girl named charlotte ( played by courtnee draper ) whose parents die becomes orphaned by the former duke due to him being her great uncle .
a young chef named florian arrives , with him and charlotte instantly connecting creating a romantic sub-plot which in its own way , acts as the under tone for the main plot line being the activities of hubert , the 'duke ' and his many activities and love interests with other dogs .
all this is watched over by james doohan who plays a butler who is determined to try and serve his old duke by doing his best to serve his new master , hubert .
doohan acts as the older character there to comfort and advise the younger ones whilst he over looks and performs various ridiculous tasks under his new master .
a fine comedic performance mixed with elements of drama to end the career of a fine and influential actor.though from the technical viewpoint , i dislike this film as i only watched upon discovering james doohan 's role .
though the plot is good , elements of the writing and directing have to be obscured .
ignoring the absurdity of a `` doggie duke '' , i personally dislike the over use of comedic and outrageous jokes upon the 'bad ' characters due to their ludicrousness .
the dependence on hygiene related humour as you like is much too apparent and general silliness of many characters does n't appeal to me .
the director , phillip spink uses mid-long shots too often with either an overdubbed voice or affecting the overall sound quality .
plus , the acting of muirhead and heyman , whilst good at the dramatic and romantic sequences , fall drastically short fulfilling the wholesale requirements regarding the role.but , as a mature movie fan , i find it easy to be over critical of a simple family film designed to make you laugh .
i can admit i found certain bits funny and other bits touching along with a plot that may be far-fetched , but has definite connections .
i do not recommend this film to mature movie fans but i do highly recommend it to dog lovers , families who wish to enjoy a funny film for their child and james doohan fans who wish to see 'scotty ' in his final role .