this movie was produced by the biggest producer in costa rica .
although their authors brag about it as a the biggest movie in costa rica ever made and their actors even dare to say that they did n't get an oscar nomination due to it 's political relevance with oil ( -he he , right ) ... well , this is all a lie .
this movie was supposedly based on a book written by carlos salazar herrera about a love triangle ( super cliché soap opera-like subject ) and it secondary story is about an oil problem on the atlantic coast of costa rica with an american oil company who wanted to explore oil deposits on the region , but at the end it never was approved by the government .
now , it may have some nice footage about the beaches , but that 's it ; nothing bigger than that ... it is all in the camera .
most of the actors are lousy , except for two or three .
the rest lack of sense of what acting means : they overact most of the time .
the story is completely common and cliché , worthy of a cheap mexican soap opera as i said.. because the crew advertised it as a protest movie about oil , but 80 % of the movie is based on a stupid love triangle .
the script is nothing impressing , it is very simple and the dialogs are not very thought .
it has also got some editing problem on a couple of scene changes ... but besides that is pretty decent .
the director did an alright job , i mean , he is not like an oliver stone , but he did his job with the resources he had handy .
i would like to question him why instead of using costarican actor he spent most of the money on foreign ones.. i mean after all they bragged about being an 100 % costarican production ... that 's what you at least expect .
final the end is is not well done , there are flaws and details that do n't match or are useless .
besides being the most elaborated movie in all costarican history , i think it 's mediocre .
you can make way more interesting and better pictures with less cash .
never heard of `` pi '' ?
anyway , if you are curious about costa rican or central american movies , this one will do , but you are definitively not missing anything .