i have just seen caribe a couple of nights ago at the annual vistas film festival held here in dallas , and i must express my discontent .
the opening caption tries to tell us that the film is a portrayal of the current invasion of south american countries ( costa rica , in this particular case ) by north american oil companies , and the negative effects , both economic and environmental , of this invasion .
the main characters are a married couple who live a simple , pleasant life maintaining a banana farm .
right away , a woman arrives and announces that she is the wife 's half-sister .
i 'm not going to go into specifics about this ( and to be honest , i do n't feel that i 'm spoiling anything with this review ) , yet another key point is that the company to whom they distribute their bananas drops them due to budget demands in a poor economy .
so , the main conflict that is supposed to be addressed in the movie is of the husband between the rock and the hard place , trying to preserve his livelihood .
on one hand , the reynolds oil company has basically offered him employment and financial compensation ( basically a bribe ) to use his public influence to encourage the town to allow the company to begin drilling in their town ( compromising his standing with the community and the community itself ) .
on the other hand , he is faced with being dead broke , but on the side of his community , protesting the drilling .
given the length of this film , it would have been ample time to explore the issues just described , but it just does n't happen , and i 'll tell you why .
you will notice that this film has won a couple of awards so far , one for direction and an audience award .
i 'm not going to pick apart esteban 's direction , it was n't bad or good enough for me to be all that passionate about writing anything .
the audience award was at a film festival in spain , and for it to gain an audience award , i 'd have to imagine that spanish people just dig soap operas .
in fact , central and south america dig soap operas as well , i know that much .
i assume that esteban was either aiming to take advantage of this or that he himself digs soap operas , because that is what unfolds over the course of this film , so much to the point that it kicks the whole oil company plot to the side , almost as if they imagined halfway through the making of this film that it had become tiresome , because it seems like at least three of the supporting characters have had their back story and character development severely compromised to make room for more sex and crying scenes .
the only true villain in the movie is one of these three characters , and at no point do you actually get to find out who the hell he is .
it 's almost as if they cut his screen time just short of taking him out of the film entirely .
from time to time , they toy with the oil against community plot , but these are digressions at best .
what we see a lot more of are scenes of passion , jealousy , betrayal , adultery , etc .
these themes saturate the story to such a degree that the oil company 'sub'plot becomes unnecessary .
it 's almost as if this was a stunt to legitimize a romantic drama ( soap opera ) by throwing in a little political relevance .
nevertheless , the film gets so caught up in the romance that it ultimately does n't know what to do with itself , resulting in an ending so tacked on that you 're left wondering what it is that you 've been waiting around for , or if there was ever anything to begin with .
here are two things that i think could have saved this movie : either cut out the half-sister or cut out the oil company .
it 's obvious which one of the two they were more interested in .
or , perhaps if caribe had been an hour longer , they could have worked this all out .
regardless , i 'd have been fine with a straight-up soap opera and i think that the subject of oil companies exploiting foreign nations is in dire need of addressing by the film community .
caribe is both and neither .
these two angles could have worked together had they been balanced accordingly , but with a romantic plot running around in circles and taking up almost twice as much time as necessary at the expense of an oil plot that 's barely been established to begin with , both sides suffer .
best of all , the romance plot is never even resolved .
i 'd like to say i 'd watch this movie again to see what i 've missed , but i have a strong feeling that i already know what it is .
as far as i 'm concerned , it would n't matter if i saw caribe ten more times .
i 've missed it because it is simply not there .