mom begins at night in the middle of nowhere , at what looks like a wooden building in the desert .
a pick-up truck pulls up & an angry father chucks his slutty daughter virginia monroe ( claudia christian ) out & leaves her there , but she is n't alone as the shadowy figure of nestor duvalier ( brion james ) watches her from a short distance .
virginia tries to make conversation but as she grinds a cigarette out under her leopard print , thigh high , high heeled boots nestor grabs her by her throat & drags her off into the darkness .
nestor then rips her top open , turns into a monster & starts to eat her innards .
virginia is the latest victim of a serial killer that have lieutenant carlo hendrix ( art evans ) & the lapd baffled , or at least that 's the message a local tv news reporter named clay dwyer ( mark thomas miller ) is telling his viewers .
clay is happily living with his pregnant girlfriend alice ( mary beth mcdonough ) & therefore his mother emily ( jeanne bates ) has a spare room going which she decides to rent out to the 'blind ' dark sunglass wearing nestor .
unfortunately for emily she accidentally knocks nestor 's sunglasses off which reveal he has strange coloured eyes , nestor then turns into a monster again & bites emily turning her into a flesh-eating monster just like himself .
nestor takes emily out to train her , they find a suitable homeless bum ( rory vansaint ) , murder him & eat his guts but emily 's son clay has witnessed the whole thing & he must choose between doing what is right & his love for his mother who now just happens to be a grotesque bloodsucking & flesh-eating monster !
edited , written & directed by patrick rand i thought mom was a pretty awful film .
looking at some of the other comments on the imdb & the genre listing it has been given it appears many seem to think that mom is a comedy horror .
well i can tell you now that i did n't see any comedic elements in mom at all because there are n't any , unless they are very subtle .
the only thing that i can assume is that people see comedy in the actual situation which mom presents , that being an old lady turning into a flesh-eating monster & the predictable problems & emotional angst that it causes to her son who finds out .
there are no jokes ( apart from naming a prostitute beverly hills ( stella stevens ) ) , slapstick humour or anything even remotely funny in the film itself & as far as i could see it is played totally straight throughout it 's 90 minute run time .
so with there being no comedy in mom that must mean there 's lots of horror right ?
wrong , mom sucks & is painfully slow to watch especially after the first thirty odd minutes which consist of nestor turning into a monster a couple of times , biting emily , showing her how to hunt for food & clay finding out .
until this point mom was moving at a fairly decent pace , had some ok special make-up effects & had me interested , unfortunately mom runs for another hour which is basically the emotional crap suffered by emily 's son , the eventual breakdown of his marriage & him being torn between love for his mother & the fact that she 's a flesh-eating monster .
this part of the film is incredibly slow , boring & as dull as dishwater even having the nerve to resort to a clichéd role-reversal scenario where clay tells his mom to go to her room & stay there locking the door behind her , telling her off & putting bars over her window so she ca n't escape her room .
mom 's script totally ignores the monsters origins & ask 's us to just accept that this thing exists without giving a single reason why we should , no matter how silly an explanation might have been i think some background to the monster would have helped .
technically mom is bland & cheap looking , although i ca n't say it 's badly made it 's very average stuff all the way with nothing that particularly impresses or anything with which i could make fun of to pass the time .
the special make-up effect 's on the monster are ok but their used in very quick flashes , blink & you 'll miss them .
do n't be fooled by any fancy video box artwork like i was , the monster is only in it three times maximum & all of those are within the pacey first thirty minutes .
there is n't much gore either , a severed arm , some brief intestine eating , a burnt body & a drill in someone 's arm is all we get .
the acting is ok but please mr. brion james what is that dodgy accent all about !
?
at least james had the good sense to know he was in crap & sensibly opted to be killed off early on in the proceedings , everyone else are nobodies expect the black lieutenant who was also a black police officer in fright night ( 1985 ) but you may recognise him from die hard 2 ( 1990 ) , he made mom & die hard 2 in the same year ?
!
talk about opposite ends of the spectrum !
overall there is nothing by which i can really recommend mom as a horror film & it certainly is n't a comedy as far as i 'm concerned .
very poor , very disappointing & yet again i 've been conned by fancy video-box artwork with lots of stills of cool looking monsters .
definitely one to avoid .