not quite a bomb ?
the only thing missing was the enriched uranium .
actually the script `` may '' have worked if the lead roles had been cast with younger actors , but the dramatics of an aging diane lane acting as if she was a teenager ( or even a twenty-something ) was too much to stomach .
every time she ( adrienne ) would jump into the arms of richard gere and then pull both heels up behind her , you could almost see the grimace of pain on his face as he was probably thinking , `` oh , my aching back ... this babe sure does n't weight 125 lbs .
anymore ! ''
anyway , both characters were distinctly unlikeable , especially richard gere 's : a self absorbed plastic surgeon ( dr. paul flanner ) that was on some kind of `` soul quest '' after a botched operation left him with a dead patient ( an older woman from a small farm ) .
then there was her angry husband and son he had to deal with to explain what happened .
dr. flanner is on his way to meet said angry husband ( at the husband 's request ) when he meets up with adrienne .
she is recently split from her unfaithful husband ( shock ) and is helping out a friend by watching her beach-front cottage rental .
of course , that 's where dr. flanner ends up staying and they both end up falling madly in love ( especially after she finds out he is a rich doctor and a plastic surgeon ) .
in between romantic interludes and a nauseating song/dance routine that lane ( adrienne ) performs while listening to an old lp ( no cd 's ? )
, they both try to figure how their lives got so totally screwed up .
dr. flanner was also not much of a father and has a son ( who is also a dr. ) who resents him for not being there for him while he was growing up .
( naturally dr. flanner was more interested in his medical career at the time rather than raising an impetuous , distracting boy . )
to make a long ( predictable ) story short , adrienne helps dr. flanner face his inner demons as well as confront said angry husband and son of the woman who died on his operating table ( after going in for a `` routine '' cyst removal of the face ) .
dr. flanner is finally able to tell the husband ( played excruciatingly sympathetic by scott glenn ) that he is sorry for what happened - even though it was all the fault of that danged anesthesiologist .
`` i told him she was too old for that much juice ! ''
glenn 's character , ( robert torrelson ) appears to accept dr. flanner 's apology .
it 's hard to tell because his emotional response is so passive by this time that you wonder if if he is even hearing the good dr. at all or thinking about some acreage that he needs to plow .
ever more circumspect , dr. flanner then decides he needs to visit his son ( who is now practicing medicine pro-bono in a third world country ) to mend their relationship .
unfortunately , that means he must temporarily bid adieu to adrienne .
of course , while entertaining the natives in timbuktu , he writes a love letter every hour on the hour to adrienne ( who nearly swoons like a school girl every time she gets one ) and tells her that the hardest thing he ever had to do was to tell her goodbye .
evidently , apologizing to robert torrelson for his wife 's death was the second hardest thing .
in the end he gets killed in a freak mud slide ( poetic justice as in mud pack ? )
and she is left with just the memories of what could have been ... hopefully no more gere/lane sequels !