my husband brought this home from the video store , so i could watch something while stuck home sick .
the sort of sick where you could never concentrate on a book , but a sorta silly , light , romantic flick sounds just right ( that , and a bowl of chicken soup ) .
well , he meant well.my first thought ( as some others post here also ) was that the house must be fake ... it 's not only isolated alone on the beach , but set on moorings into the loose sand , and so close to the ocean that the surf waves go directly under the house !
this looks so obviously dangerous ( in hurricane country , in the fall ) , so potentially disastrous that i was sure filmmakers had simply cgi 'd the whole thing ( or used movie magic to plunk a cute b & b into the surf ) .but i have to tell you guys , thanks to `` teh interwebs '' , i can say that the house , `` serendipity '' is very real , is indeed near rodanthe and except for some window dressing and shrubs , appears mostly as it does in the film .
you can rent it yourself , off season , for $ 1710 a week ( or about $ 3850 in summer ) !
go for it !
but ... interestingly , the house has severe problems .
the second thing that struck me after `` would be washed away '' was `` what about the plumbing/electrical ?
in that surf ?
`` , and sure enough , `` serendipity '' was condemned for a break in the sanitation , caused by overwash from the ocean .
( they are rebuilding . )
and the house is n't from the `` civil war '' .
not to mention that viola davis , playing `` cliché black best friend '' ( thankless role for a fine actress , last seen in `` doubt '' ) , is not remotely old enough that her grandmother could have built anything in the civil war !
hello !
that was 150 years ago !
try great-great-great !
( in reality , `` serendipity '' was built in 1988 , laughably recently . )
the basic film is built on a typical nicholas sparks weeper , which means a lot of coincidence and trite predictable happenstance .
it is also aimed in a very pandering way towards `` women '' -- you know , us women who love b & bs , fusty antiques and knick-knacks ... who dream of romance and guys who look like richard gere and dancing in the moonlight .
do n't give us plot , or thoughtful character development ; just set up some mechanisms and bring on the love scenes !
gere plays a plastic surgeon , who lost a female patient during a routine surgery for a benign cyst on her cheek .
of course , she died of an overdose of anesthesia , so you wonder right away why the surgeon is guilted up and not the anesthesiologist !
hello !
where is that guy ?
why is the wrong doctor feeling guilty ?
gere has come to pout and confront the woman 's husband , and is staying at the remote b & b ... who should be there , why the only other person in the inn ... diane lane !
she 's a lonely divorcée , with rotten kids , and an ex-hubby who wants her back .
while she 's trying to decide about that , the cliché best black friend has her subbing as hostess at the b & b.now , in the real world , if this set up ever even happened , the doctor would look like ernest borgnine ... and the lonely divorcée , like rosie o'donnell .
he 'd spend his vacation horndogging 22 year old girls on the beach , while she sulked and thought about going on a diet .
but this is n't the real world ; i digress.the couple confess all , fall in love , a hurricane hits ... they make love , fall in love , he has to go away , he dies and she cries a lot about that .
the end.there , i 've saved you from it ; now you do n't have to torture yourself or any male acquaintances ( husbands , sons , boyfriends ) from sitting through this tripe .
very wearying.someone else asked why diane lane , a perfect tiny woman ( whom filmmakers seem to love to cast , because she 's just pretty and thin enough that most women would like to look like her , but she 's 45ish and not over-the-top , so she is n't threatening ) is constantly covered in big tarp-like shawls .
this would make sense if she was chubby , but she isn't.anyways , someone throw a pretty , paisley shawl over this film .
so we do n't have to watch it .
conclusion : read a book , unless you are too sick .
if too sick , go to sleep .