sometimes it is funny to watch films implode from your couch , but other times it is just horribly painful to both your eyes and your mind .
house party 4 : down to the last minute is one of those rare examples of when both your eyes and your mind are pleading with you to turn the film off .
this final installment to the house party series is by far the worst , not just sequel , but film released by hollywood .
it becomes very apparent early on in this `` feature '' that director chris stokes loved ferris bueller 's day off with a passion .
i say this because it becomes very clear that stokes had no trouble lifting the originality of bueller off john hughes ' hands and choosing to create a film completely void of humor .
you would think that by `` stealing '' themes and images from a funnier film , your own film would at least be able to generate a giggle or two .
with house party 4 , stokes proved that he does not have what it takes to direct a sequel , much less a hollywood film .
from his confusing and choppy story , the inability to make sense of his characters , and recycled old/tired cliché moments , all stokes is doing is hitting a bigger nail into the coffin that holds the house party films .
it reminds me of that student that forgets about his project due in an hour and quickly slops together super glue , macaroni , cat hair , chewing gum , and straws and presents it as `` hannibal crossing the alps '' .
it just looks horrible and you feel embarrassed for the creator.so , where did this film first take the plunge into the realm of comic stupidity ?
honestly , i do not think that most places will allow me to speak that long , so instead i would like to hit upon some of the larger topics that hit me the hardest .
to begin , i still can not shake the ferris beuller rip-off .
it was as if director stokes was ashamed of having to direct another sequel to house party and decided to bring in a completely random formula ( from a funnier film ) and see if he could cut and paste elements from the original series into that formula .
that was a huge mistake .
when a director tries to do this , what eventually happens is confusion within the audience .
we think that we are going in one direction , but instead we head in another one .
that is exactly what you can witness in house party 4. in one instance we have john-john trying to have the `` biggest party of the decade '' while also trying to score a record deal ( ok , kinda reminds me of the original house party ) , but then we whisk away to this random island where uncle charles is afraid of flying , grandma gets drunk , and some idiotic mind-dulling moments with a supposed killer .
again , we begin somewhat strong , and end chaotic .
this is the confusion in which i speak .
director stokes did not have the ability to keep his hand on either the pulse of humor or the ability to tell a sequential story .
he would rather cut corners , keep the jokes cheap , and think that the audiences are idiots than attempt to revive a stone-dead series .
one would think that when a director was handed that task of filming another house party film he would walk into it thinking that he/she would be the one to revive it or bring it back to life , instead stokes just wanted to get paid.i realize that i am slowly growing older as the days go quickly by , but i do believe i still keep my hand in the younger generation 's culture .
i listened to rap and r & b growing up , but the group `` immature '' never made it to either my cassette deck or my cd player .
why ?
i do n't think they ever quite had a following , but apparently to director chris stokes , it would be beneficial to cast them as leads in his new house party film .
did n't anyone at any studio realize that this was going to be in the red rather quickly ?
or how about the option to have stokes himself play the comedic car repairman , nothing like a director with no sense of comic timing casting himself as the only source of possible humor .
it was one of those few instances when i actually missed robin harris , and i never thought i would find myself saying that to any film .
outside of a go-nowhere band playing the lead role , i also thought that the remainder of the cast only continued to suck the life out of this film .
uncle charles was annoying when he attempted humor .
kim whitely was completely wasted for her scenes ( both literally and figuratively ) while well everyone else pretty much falls into that category.where did chris stokes spend most of the budget for this film ?
not for special guest stars because while this film may have boasted some , there were definitely none present at the `` unforgettable '' house party , nor the possible dream that perhaps kid or play would make one final appearance .
house party 4 followed no preset design , which ultimately ruined this feature from the foundation down .
can anyone explain to me why there was any need to use the `` escaped murderer who happened to be a licensed taxicab driver '' routine for humor ?
stokes was reaching deep within the bottom of the barrel and only produced more muck instead of substance .
for once i can admit to there being no redeeming value to this film .
house party 4 buried the series , and while i do hear that there may be more in the pipeline , i only hope hollywood realizes that this series has died .
hollywood needs to let this series end , forget about the past and move forward in the future .
i think a sequel to who 's the man ?
would get them started in the right direction.grade : * out of *****