some movies are off-beat , but enjoyable , but many movies are just mind-numbingly weird .
`` motorama '' fits not-so-nicely in the latter category .
many seem to like it because of endless guest appearances and a total lack of sense , but those two things can only take a movie so far , and `` motorama '' simply does n't have any other merits to its credit .
`` motorama '' delights itself on plot improbabilities .
its main character , gus , is a cussing 10-year old on a roadtrip across an imaginary country trying to collect game pieces to win $ 500 million .
when interacting with adult figures , none of them seem to notice or be concerned with the fact that he 's 10 years old .
at first it 's incredibly funny , but it quickly becomes just too unbelievable , especially considering the people he runs into and the fact that he seems so unfazed by a lot of the disturbing ( to someone that age ) imagery going on around him .
gus has no depth , and , as an anti-hero who has no problem causing misery for others to get his game pieces , it 's hard to feel sorry for him when he encounters trouble.that trouble is provided by a slew of guest appearances , each mistreating gus in more and more strange ways .
besides making the already worn-out plot even more unbelievable and less enjoyable , the characters share gus ' lack of depth and are equally unmemorable .
the character 's actions can get a little interesting , but the actors themselves do n't add anything to them , thus negating the whole point of getting big names ( they could 've been played by anyone and the character would 've been the same ) .
these guest appearances seem to have been signed more for marquee value than anything else .
`` motorama '' should be interesting - it 's a unique idea , but there 's too little semblance of sense in the script for it to work .
incidents that should have a lasting effect on the anti-hero and the viewer do n't , as the movie quickly moves from incident to incident , in the hope that something will eventually make the audience feel sorry or understanding for gus .
that never happens , as by doing so nothing is allowed to connect , it just jerks back and forth as if on a conveyor belt , one incident after another .
with a story so nonsensical it ceases to be enjoyable , and a main character who never evolves to care for himself or anyone else on a higher level , `` motorama '' has little to offer except a brat sneaking around and trying to get rich .
why should we care about that ?