beware , my lovely ( 1952 ) dir : harry horner production : the filmmakers/rko radio picturescredulity-straining thriller from the pioneering producer team of collier young and ida lupino , aka the filmmakers ( with lupino pitching in with some uncredited direction ) .
robert ryan is the 'peril ' and ida lupino is the 'woman ' in this entry in the 'woman in peril ' style film .
ryan plays howard wilton , a tightly-wound psychotic handyman drifter ( noooo , ryan ?
i know , hard to believe ) .
lupino is the lonely war widow , helen gordon , who hires howard to do some work around her house .
things go downhill from there as howard makes helen a prisoner in her own home .
howard has a nasty secret , not that he could reveal it .
you see , consciousness is a real challenge for him .
maintaining it , that is .
he has an unfortunate habit of coming to and finding his employers dead .
this is part of the film 's problem .
the nature of howard 's psychosis is so extreme that it is nearly impossible to believe that he 's been free to roam from town to town unobstructed , even in the year 1918 ( when the film is set ) .
he ca n't remember anything that happened ten minutes ago .
his violent , threatening , anti-social tendencies are set off by the smallest and most common of things ( a young girl flirting , inadequacies involving the war , due to his being rejected for service ) .
i do n't know how he even made it past the interview with helen .
there are other implausibilities .
if you were locked in your house with a madman , but nonetheless left on your own for periods of time , could n't you figure out a way to escape ?
ryan , i think , is defeated by the material .
it feels like he 's overplaying his hand .
his series of tics and spasms and the tightly coiled bursts of dementia all have a been-there , done-that robotic feel to them .
at this point in his career he 'd probably played this character , to some degree , ten times and it shows .
we are encouraged to empathize with howard ( i did n't ) through shown bits of humanity , like him being stopped in his tracks by a music box and his relating to a group of children who wo n't judge him .
lupino just has to act frazzled and in distress , which she is more than capable of and does .
the picture had one thing going for it ; what would be the eventual resolution of the conflict ?
so naturally there was a disappointing ending that was abrupt and ineffective .
of slight interest was a recurring motif where the camera would catch howard 's reflection ( in mirrors , water , christmas tree decorations ) .
this indicated something going on , or about to go on , in his head .
horner ( 1953 's vicki ) , who made his reputation in production design , does a fine job of making the house feel like a prison .
credit too , the always reliable rko art department for the work on the house .
in the end , sub-standard work from the principals , who all have much better films to their credit .
*½ out of 4