when they announced this movie for tnt i was excited .
a travesty from donald westlake 's `` enough '' was one of my all time favorite stories .
after i watched it i was not all that thrilled .
recently i had the chance to watch it a second time with my aunt , and once again i was disappointed ( she did n't like it much either , and she 'd never read the book ) .
in this movie they managed to sap all the charm from the book and turn it into dull mush .
a big part of the problem was william h. macy .
i like him fine in other films , but he played ( terry/carey ) thorpe as a stammering , incompetent yutz .
in the book thorpe takes a lot of valium for his nerves , but remains outwardly collected at almost all times which is part of the fun .
spoilers follow : they also left out a big part of the story ( other than a 2 second glimpse at the embassy ) , where thorpe solves not 1 but 4 homicides for the police .
this is important not just because it 's funny , but because it helps set up the relationship between fred and thorpe .
in the movie fred 's betrayal in the end is not nearly as affecting , because they do n't seem all that close .
in the book they become pretty good friends especially on fred 's side , which makes it all the more ironic that he is he one that arranges thorpe 's downfall .
fred also suffered a bit from casting , i love adam arkin but he was not a cheerful , happy to be alive upbeat sort of detective , character traits which book fred possesses which makes it more obviously out of character for him to mess with evidence and thus more shocking .
patricia and edgarson were pretty close to the book , and james cromwell was great despite not looking much like martin balsam .
the whole boring boat house scene which was entirely added for the film was much less interesting than the police finding edgarson 's body after thorpe ships it to seattle and blaming the death on the mob .
kit was okay although she was mostly rewritten , and it would have been nice to see her die as she did get slightly annoying .
i do n't mind changes to books to make movies , i know they are necessary because of length and difficulty , but it would have been nice if some of the changes in this movie had been funnier or smarter instead of duller .