the third film based on charles belden 's play entitled `` mystery of the wax museum '' ( 1933 ) targets generation x-tasy .
twin screenwriters , chad hayes and carey w. hayes , spend more time developing the main characters than other slasher movies -- a promising start .
their condition guarantees an authentic point of view .
the role of paige ( paris hilton ) was not much of a stretch for the world 's favorite heiress .
she peruses `` in style , '' stripteases boys , chats on a cell , and frets over an ill-conceived pregnancy .
her regular routine has been altered beyond repair .
hilton reached the peak of her performance -- not so hot -- during the `` 1 night in paris '' ( 2004 ) parody .
while the pimp-my-ride is in motion , she zealously `` looks for lip balm '' in her boyfriend 's ( robert ri'chard ) lap .
finally , the `` actress '' atones for using the `` n '' word on the sex tape .
director jaume collet-serra molds his take on the twin thing contrary to the theme of the past .
each exhibited opposite characteristics back then , whereas a pair of either good or bad can come out the womb today .
however , the latter does not rule out the former .
childbirth constitutes the luck of the draw .
spectators can hardly consider vincent ( brian van holt ) a contemporary quasimodo .
granted , the recluses share some similarities such as artistry , disfigurement , submissiveness , and murder .
yet , one small variable between the two makes all the difference .
vincent is even uglier on the inside than he is on the out .
collet-serra 's `` house of wax '' pays homage to actor vincent price from the first remake in 1953. the film leaves obvious van gogh puns to the imagination of the audience .
still , the choice to split the antagonist in two eliminates a vibrant twist at the end .
professor henry ( vincent price ) jarrod 's unmasking receives runner-up , but the most terrifying one in horror movie history belongs to lon chaney in `` phantom of the opera '' ( 1925 ) .
as far as the new contender is concerned , the aftermath of separation surgery downplays the effect .
a surgeon should know operating on siamese twins scars them -- physically and psychologically .
their father needs to call a couple colleagues -- dr. phil to consult and dr. mcnamara to nip/tuck .
despite what the trailers said , `` wax '' is not forever .
in fact , you can rid yourself of it by burning it .