it 's like someone took a fantasy-type video game and put it in a blender , and the resulting scene mishmash is what we have to sit through.now let me go on record by saying how much i love chinese fantasy films .
from the fun and silly , to those focusing on martial arts , to the more dramatic and romantic types—it 's a genre i very much enjoy .
films like `` a chinese odyssey : pandora 's box '' and `` a chinese odyssey : cinderella '' ( both of which were written and/or directed by jeffrey lau ) ; `` the bride with white hair '' ; `` butterfly & sword '' ; `` green snake '' ; `` a chinese ghost story '' ; `` swordman ii '' ; `` zu : warriors from the magic mountain '' ; `` crouching tiger , hidden dragon '' ; and others .
which is why i was looking forward to `` a chinese tall story . ''
one of the film 's characters is the `` monkey king '' ( aka sun wukong ) , an extremely well-known character in chinese mythology , first told in the stories of the `` journey to the west , '' the epic adventure written about 500 years ago .
( the story of the monkey king and his disciples is also the focus of the `` chinese odyssey '' films , amongst many others ) .
other familiar characters that appear in the film are zhu wuneng ( the pig character ) and sha wujing.so how does it all go wrong ?
well , let 's take an example familiar to western audiences .
how about the robin hood mythology ?
a well known story from ye olden days .
let 's say that our robin hood film starred wesley snipes as robin hood , and haley joel osment as friar tuck .
maid marian is none other than rosie perez .
let 's give sir robin an uzi as well , because you never know when you might have to waste the sheriff of nottingham .
they might need rocket packs also , and while we 're at it , give them a tactical nuclear weapon because that sure could come in handy .
if you think this sounds like a really neat retelling of the robin hood tale , then `` a chinese tall story '' is the movie for you !
as i indicated above , this movie is a jumbled mess .
in the first 30 minutes , we are introduced not only to sun wukong , zhu wuneng , and sha wujing , but also to the monk tripitaka ( who is actually the main protagonist ) , kidnapped children , a `` millennium bug demon '' ( which shoots laser beams ) , an underground tree god , a lizard imp tribe , an angelic girl in an intergalactic egg , the lord chancellor tortoise , a sea dragon king , a ever-morphing magic golden staff , a chatterbox imp girl , wormholes in space , and the four heavenly knights .
all this would n't be too bad -- the tales and myths passed down over the years certainly do have all sorts of fantastical elements .
but i guarantee you the chinese mythology does not include much of the stuff we get subjected to in the last half of the film .
( helpful advice to the filmmakers : just because your computer effects guys can come up with cool looking spaceships and depictions of intergalactic war , does not mean they should ) .you know your chinese mythology movie is on the wrong track when the director asks ( and i am not making this up—it 's a direct quote from the commentary ) `` i asked the composer whether or not we can have a more rock-and-roll type music when she transforms into some kind of android-like thing . ''
is there a story hidden in here somewhere ?
yes .
yes , there is .
most of the adventure follows tripitaka ( played by nicholas tse— '' gen-x cops , '' `` time and tide , '' `` my schoolmate the barbarian '' ) and meiyan , the lizard imp girl ( played by charlene choi and a computer ) .
choi is the best thing going in this film .
you may know her as half of the canto-pop group `` twins '' and from other films such as `` the twins effect '' ( a fun flick ) and `` just one look '' ( a surprisingly good drama/romance/comedy ) .
poor choi , being a lizard imp and all , is hardly recognizable with her warts , snagged out teeth , doughy nose , and hunched back .
that is until the computers get a hold of and beautify her , which somehow makes it worse .
tse is passable , but all of the supporting actors were abysmal .
a couple of recognizable faces in bit parts are wasted.at one point i was debating with myself if `` a chinese tall story '' was a spoof .
i was almost able to convince myself that it was when the intergalactic egg girl ( played by a very pretty fan bing-bing ) got out and lit up a marlboro ( ! )
while talking with tripitaka who was practicing martial arts dressed in a spider-man costume ( !
! )
.
but it is not a spoof .
of course there is the typical hong kong silliness , but the movie takes itself seriously enough , with enough scenes of romance and pathos ( scored with a sledghammering of violins and evocative cellos ) and rousing action and adventure.you might think that you could watch this on a netflix rental and it would n't cost you anything .
( oh , but it 'll cost you , all right ) .is there anything good to say ?
sure .
the colors are vibrant ( they are the best thing about this movie ) .
and the filmmakers certainly were trying very hard .
too bad all that effort went into a movie that is not much more than a bad video game .