possible spoilers -- i love dennis quaid and i like meg ryan .
i was looking forward to seeing them together , being married and all , i wanted to see their on-screen chemistry .
okay , that being said , i guess the fact that they are actors , their off-screen relationship did n't have to permeate their performances , especially with this script.how stupid can a professor be to glue himself to anyone .
i do n't remember the original , but i can only assume that o'brien probably was handcuffed to his leading lady , probably in a more inevitable way .
if i were `` bonded '' to someone i 'd be pretty angry .
the crush i would have would definitely have dissipated quickly .
meg showed not even a little annoyance only slight surprise .
dennis would have to take me kicking and screaming .
that whole section of the movie was so horrible -- especially meg having to go to the bathroom ( # 2 ) between dumpsters in the dark at night .
ewww .
no f****ing way !
what 's with dennis socking every single suspect in the movie .
sock first ask questions later .
not once , not twice but too many times -- i could have kept count if i were so inclined .
the most interesting part of the movie was nick and his family drama .
too bad that could n't have become more of the plot .
the assumed off-screen drama leading up to this tragedy .
i think it could have been written in without distracting from dex ' quest .
my blame lies with the writer of this screenplay .
unless the director and others doctored it up so much that it 's unrecognizable.i wo n't even get into the real reason poor dex was murdered .
how ludicrous is that .
even when dex confronted the real killer and the reason was explained , ( a true `` film noir '' moment ) everyone on screen seemed bored .
oh , _____ happened .
oh .
( yawn ) `` dex even says this is a silly reason for a triple murder .
oh the tension , you could cut it with a spoon.if anyone but dennis had been in this movie , i 'd have to give it 1/2 star ( only because i really have seen worse ) , but in this case 1 1/2 stars.for dennis and meg stars , see anything else .