i 'm the type of guy who loves hood movies from new jack city to baby boy to killa season , from the b grade to the hollywood .
but this movie was something different .
i am no hater and this movie was kinda enjoyable .
but some bits were just weird .
well the acting was n't to good , compared to silkk the shockers performance in hot boyz ( quite good ) and ice-t in new jack and svu ( great ) .
the scene where corrupt ( ice-t ) kills the wan na be jamaican dude he says something and lights himself on fire burning both ice-t and the other dude , this kills the jamaican , however ice-t is unharmed , very similar to ice 's other movie urban menace ( which stars both of these actors ) were snoops character is supernatural , however after this there is nothing suggested that corrupt is like a demon .
when mj ( silkk ) gets stabbed at first he struggling but after that he fights normally and was stabbed in the thigh-with out blood .
and when mj confesses killing a cop cos the cop was beating up his friend benny was weird , benny is n't introduced in this movie and the scene is n't in the film .
it does hold weight to the fact why corrupt wants to kill mj but is still makes u scratch your head .
wen jody writes a letter to miss jones character explaining what happened to them afterwords does n't mention what happen 2 other main characters mj and lisa .
the film did show the horror and poverty of the ghetto-which plagues the lives of latinos and blacks word wide-was a good part of the film , even though the clip of the projects was re-used thousands of times .
and the scene where miles kills the latino brother by crashing his bike at full speed ( not wearing a helmet ) and running into my latino brothers car would of killed him .
the movie was similar to the film urban menace and half the actors were in both of these movies as well as the production team .
it was ok tho .
but me being from poverty i love hood films , however if u do n't love em like i do do n't watch it .
only thing saving me from walking out is it reminded me of the first movie i made which was made with 100 dollars , and my love of the genre.nathaniel purez