sometimes hallmark can get it right - like the 10th kingdom - but many of their fantasy films plod , and this falls into the latter category .
the version i saw may have been cut ( a demon [ ? ]
shown in the trailer and publicity stills did n't appear ) , but anything that made the movie shorter can only be a blessing.possible spoilers if you are unfamiliar with the original fairy tale : anyway , the film updates the story to the early part of the 20th century ( ? )
, and makes gerda and kay ( here called kai - being a lexx fan , i kept expecting him to say , `the dead do not solve puzzles ' ) 18 year olds .
hans christian andersen 's basic story is followed : the boy gets a shard of ice in his eye , goes bad , is taken off by the snow queen to solve a puzzle in her palace and gerda goes to find him , having various adventures on the way.as the two main characters are older than in the original , a lot of time is spent getting them together and `in love ' .
unfortunately , i was never convinced that they were particularly in love , and certainly not enough in love to make sense of gerda 's quest .
by the time the main plot kicks in , the movie 's pace has slowed to a crawl .
alas , when gerda begins her search for kai , it only manages to pick up the pace to a leisurely stroll.there are a few odd additions to the story that seem to go nowhere .
at the start of the film the snow queen kills gerda 's mother , but no explanation for this is given .
a polar bear living in the snow queen 's palace is more than he seems ( though this is possibly because the producers realised that the bear 's feelings towards the snow queen would be ok in a fairy tale , but not in a modern film ) .
again , this is never explained .
also , hints that the snow queen has an erotic desire for kai are dropped , but never followed through .
the script is also full of anachronisms that really jar you out of the `fairy tale ' mood.the production looks good , though there is evidence of penny-pinching : the snow queen 's palace is the hotel where gerda and kai lived covered in ice .
the three main characters are played with varying degrees of success : kai comes across as bland as does gerda initially , but once she sets off to find kai you warm to her .
bridget fonda looks great as the snow queen , but seems to be in a different movie to everyone else.ultimately , the film is unsatisfying .
it looks good , but drags and lacks magic .