i do n't understand jokes .
i do believe this is my problem with modern cinema , or those films that are made with millions of dollars in hopes that it will become the next greatest sensation .
is n't it odd – people just do n't laugh as much anymore , and i do believe one of the diseases to that problem is the film `` showtime '' .
there was absolutely nothing , from the beginning to the end of the credits , with all of the bantering between murphy and de niro , with russo as eye candy , with even standard clichés which make the general population swoon with pre-programmed laughter , there was nothing in this film that made me laugh .
there were n't the overbearing physical jokes or the calculated mental vocal jokes at all throughout this debacle of a film .
from the beginning , i did n't buy the match-up of de niro and murphy as anything more than hollywood excitement , throughout the commentary the director vividly talks about the hijinks and laughter going on during the shoot – where was it in the film ?
this falls to either two problems – the director really does n't have a sense of comedy or the editor did n't understand the value of the film .
either way , they both doomed the entire hour and a half spent on the hollywood nightmare `` showtime '' .outside of finding no reason to laugh , there was no reason to follow these characters through any moment of the film .
there was a glimpse of humor with de niro 's desire to pick up pottery as a hobby ( but the director had to write kiln on the machine so audiences would understand – who does that ? )
, but that was dropped and never developed .
there was the idea that murphy was an actor , but outside of that one opening monologue , nobody would have understood that .
he rents a room in a producer 's house in which he can afford on a police officer 's salary ?
this just did n't compute even for hollywood standards .
there was a bad guy who wanted a big gun , but the gun was never developed , nor was there any true test of the weapons capability even at the end .
it became a bigger joke to laugh at an accent than remember the guns .
where was the television show in this ?
russo had to get permission from this random guy at the beginning , but there were no consequences .
there was nothing in the middle of this film outside of further questions and meaningless dribble .
random characters were introduced , forgotten , re-introduced , and forgotten all over again .
the director and producer laughed at this , while we , the meager viewer , must suffer through inside jokes and cliché stereotypes.was there a love interest in this film ?
was there a truly sinister bad guy that went apart from the comic duo to bring true evil to the screen ?
were there any pop culture references that did n't come back to robert de niro ?
was there random chaos throughout this film ?
if you need the answers to these , obviously , you wo n't find them in `` showtime '' .
the fact that i am riddling this review with question upon question , only means that this sub-par ( actually , well below sub-sub-sub par ) filled no quota or resembled anything of value to the cinematic world .
sure , it had big names and one really neat explosion , but there was nothing of substance to this at all .
it was almost as if the director said prior to the shoot that he wanted clichés , but not regular clichés – go with the bad ones .
the plot had no linear structure .
the jokes were boring .
the characters were drab and underdeveloped .
this ranks below even the best of `` buddy-cop '' films .
i like to give films the benefit of the doubt , but nothing worked in this film .
not even shatner could save this film , and he even tried hard.overall , i can not , nor will i , suggest this film to anyone with a pulse .
the commentary only confirms the pathetic nature of the film with obvious flaws , horrid jokes , and creators questioning the validity of their work .
if creators ca n't stand behind `` showtime '' , why should we ?
i did n't want a `` lethal weapon '' when i watched this , but i did want something like that .
i understand there was some form of criticism of `` reality television '' and the corrupt nature of the media , but that message did n't make it off the page .
in fact , i believe i saw `` media '' leave the theater first when i watched this .
shame carries its heavy hand with this film and i can not blame it .
murphy used to be a big star , comedy was his middle name ( see `` coming to america '' ) , but lately he seems to have lost his edge .
de niro obviously wants to get away from an image that haunts him , but making these sort of films is only going to set him back further .
one of these films is equal to one scorsese picture.skip this one .
i promise , it will make your final cinematic days worthwhile .
oh , and if you laughed at any of the jokes in this film – i am truly sorry !
grade : * out of *****