bubbling just beneath the surface of showtime is a good idea .
actually , it 's more like two or three ideas that constantly fight for screentime .
this film does n't just have its cake and eat it too ; it has the whole bakery.detective mitch preston ( robert de niro ) has a drug bust interrupted by the media and a brash , cop-slash-actor named trey sellars ( eddie murphy ) .
when preston 's partner is shot , he angrily shoots the camera out of the hands of a pestering newsman , and the tiff lands him in a new reality cop show produced by chase renzi ( rene russo ) .
in the first of many errors and oddities in the movie , that injured partner is never heard from again or alluded to for the remainder of the film.de niro 's best gag is his speech to a classroom of small children to open the picture about how tv cops do n't act like real cops .
funny thing is , as the movie progresses , his character and murphy 's begin to act more and more like the clichés they supposedly clash so strongly with .
in a smarter movie , de niro 's diatribe could have played as ironic comment ; here , it only shows to point out how truly lame the movie is .
while a spoof of a reality based cop show could be funny , the team of writers and director tom dey ( who made the far superior shanghai noon a few years ago ; see that movie instead ) seem to be on unsure footing , and instead of slamming the tv industry , they really let them off light ( the harshest thing they seem to be able to say about network execs is they like to play ping pong at work ) .
russo 's character has a glint of fiendish delight in her eye , but her dialogue and actions rarely match the actress ' enthusiasm .
with little on screen to keep my attention , my mind began to wander , and that 's dangerous in a movie with this many plot holes .
for instance ; if showtime ( the name given to the cop show ) is such a popular smash , why does n't anyone seem to recognize de niro and murphy when they are on the job ?
for that matter , if their investigation of smuggler and all around mean guy vargas is being televised , why the heck has n't someone mentioned to him that they are on his trail ?
then again , given this villain 's actions maybe i should n't be surprised ; this is the same joker who is very angry at an associate for using his new supergun without approval , jeopardizing a deal , and then dispatches him how ?
by using about ten of the superguns to level his entire house , of course !
that 's like putting out a fire with a bigger fire .
occasionally , showtime gets laughs , but there simply are n't enough for the film 's nearly two hour running time .
even worse , the really smart gags suggest that this movie really could have been on to something , if only they had put in a few more drafts of the script .
murphy mugs and talks as fast as he can with minimal results , and de niro looks flat out bored through most of this .
after a completely unnecessary fistfight between cops and gangsters ( that remarkably results in no injuries and no arrests ) russo 's character shouts `that 's great television ! '
perhaps it 's great television , but it 's far from a great movie .