i put down this vehicle from robert de niro and eddie murphy , and murphy in particular the first time but having seen it again , recently , i can see that it does have some very funny bits.this is by no means to say that this is the greatest buddy comedy of all time , but really what can you do to the already exhausted subgenre ?
what director , tom dey , has tried to do is make it a satire of the clichés of buddy comedy and the media .
early in the movie the executive of a cable network asks : `` how is this different from cops ?
`` , when chase renzi is pitching the idea of a reality show dealing with de niro 's character , mitch preston ( hilariously boring name by the way ) .
that 's when i saw it in a new light that i had n't previously noticed.the idea is to show all the elements of the buddy comedy and put a twist on them .
de niro 's reluctance to star in the show and to partner up with murphy is right out of every cop film you can think of .
you can say that de niro is actually playing himself asking : `` why would i do another movie playing a cop ? ''
chase renzi is portrayed to be a hollywood phony but if you look at her opening scene again , she is merely doing it to save her job .
she somehow sees the ridiculousness of what she is doing but she wants to succeed despite that .
one line says it all : `` who does n't want to be on tv ? ''
maybe this is reading too much into what is essentially a lightweight film , merely set to entertain , but it does give it a little spin that i had n't noticed before.as for murphy .
you got to applaud him for looking this ridiculous .
trey wants to be a star so bad that he is willing to sell out everything he comes in contact with .
murphy was a big star and maybe it struck a nerve that it is all so fleeting.the plot with the gun is of course pretty boring .
the action sequences are nothing special , except the end which required a lot of effort both from cast and crew .
one thing that i noticed about the villain is that he is dressed like an 80 's pop star .
george michael comes to mind and that adds to the whole media spin.so , i trashed it the first time around but what the heck ; if you are gon na do this , why not point out how ridiculous it really is and de niro and murphy took a big chance doing this .