i can imagine what happened for this film to come into being : a bunch of studio guys are sitting around , drinking gin-and-tonic , maybe a joint , and one of them comes up with the idea that it would be great if they could find a film that would bridge the generation gap , which at that time was about as far apart as archie bunker and mick jagger .
something that both college-age rebels and their parents would find equally interesting -- for different reasons , perhaps , but still , a ticket is a ticket .
what interested hippies ?
asia , philosophy , pacifism , and wild sets and costumes .
what interested their parents ?
musicals , eye candy , a feel-good script , and nostalgia .
very well , then , `` lost horizon '' , the old classic , as a musical , in color .
ca n't miss , right ?
it was a bomb .
lost horizon , by james hilton , is perhaps less than a classic , but not a bad novel .
in broad terms , he sketches out a utopian society in shangri-la , `` the valley of the blue moon '' , near tibet , inhabited by peacefully contented villagers who serve an abbey of < i > very < /i > long-lived monks .
intruding into paradise is a gilligan 's island-like planeful of outsiders ( a veteran of wwi , a missionary , etc . )
each with their own spin on the situation -- what plot there is concerns the reaction of each of them to being presented with a choice to live in paradise , or try to return to the tumult of the twentieth century .
taken on its own terms , it 's gentle , pop-lit fluff , presenting hilton 's own conservative british views in `` oriental '' dress , as exotic and as familiar as a fortune cookie .
as captive honored guests of the monks , the castaways are forbidden to leave the valley , but never pressed into work or prayer ( not that the monks do too much of that themselves ) , treated royally , and given simple , yet luxurious accomodations -- who 'd want to escape ?
in this middle american heaven-on-earth , the monks are both cultured and wise , the climate is warm , the food is plentiful and tasty , the villagers are picturesque nonentities and nothing ever changes .
the nuns are chaste , but encouraged to look pretty , and even flirt a bit ( the reason given is one of the most hilariously inaccurate explanations of tantric sex i 've ever read ) .
even their religion is nonthreatening : revealed as a best-of-both worlds blend of christianity and buddhism , there 's little to offend any but the staunchest fundamentalist or the oddballs out there who actually knew something about tibet ( which in the early thirties was a very small number ) .as a capra film focussing on the adventure/character interplay angles it was enchanting ; and perhaps steven spielburg could have made it fly , if he 'd been around .
as an early-seventies hollywood product , the adventure was over too quickly , and the updated roster of characters too bland , to make much of an impression .
deprived of the sketchy , suggestive qualities of classic b & w , the monastery resembles a de luxe beauty spa in white and pale blue , and while at least some of the monks ' robes tried for historical accuracy , most of the rest of the inmates looked as if on their way to a morning massage and fango bath , with a couple of holes of golf in the afternoon .
maybe stephan sondheim could have restored some grit to the story , playing up the very real conflict inside each character 's reaction ; just five years afterwards , brian eno would have captured the tranquil atmosphere to a t ; instead , bert bacherach and hal david were given the job of writing the songs , which marry muzak-like melodies with some of the clunkiest new agey lyrics ever penned .
quite naturally for the time , every song calls for a dance number , which range from the merely forgettable to the completely boring , and so is the script , which has not one line worth quoting.tie-ins with this movie were legion -- there were everything from cookbooks to posters planned to promote this film , and such was the hype that i actually went out and bought the sountrack album .
just about the only thing good i can say about it is that it made enough of an impression on me to write this review completely from memory nearly thirty years after -- the next month i read aldous huxley , bought a copy of the bardo thadol , and hence learned about real tibetan culture .
moan .