..but unfortunately no one thought about having van killed in order to save this doomed production .
the only positive thing about him in the film is his nice singing voice ... too bad the songs are mostly insipid and sappy .
why did i hate van so much ?
well , throughout the film he seemed like he was doing a third-rate soupy sales imitation -- with lots of mugging , bad jokes and way too much energy spent trying to make everyone laugh .
the worst of these moments was when he was `` teaching '' the class -- these kids laughed at everything he did .
heck , van could have read the phone book or showed them autopsy photos and they probably would have laughed !
now van was not the only bad casting decision in the film -- he was just the most obvious .
of course , having john gielgud ( a lovely actor ) play an asian was ridiculous as well as having michael york play peter finch 's brother !
!
the bottom line is that because of these insane casting choices , the film was doomed from the start ... .and the worst of them was the god-awful bobby van .
now in real life , he might have been a lovely person and it 's sad that in real life he died so young , but with the material they gave him here i just wanted to rip out his tongue to get him to be quiet.now i also mentioned the songs -- egad , those terrible songs !
!
the original lost horizon by frank capra was a subtle delight throughout -- and not a single song and dance number in the film .
so why did they decide to add a bazillion songs that did nothing to help the film ?
they only served to make it seem like a gooey mess -- like the original doctor doolittle combined with lost horizon .
the end result is a sickly sweet children 's movie -- not one that can be enjoyed by anyone over 8.now if you can remove these problems , you have the basis of a decent film .
after all , the plot is lovely and is still hidden beneath all the goo .
peter finch is particularly good ( though certainly not the equal of ronald colman in the original ) .
but , considering that the original was a near-perfect classic , why bother with this sticky confection .
who wants to wade through the treacle ?
!
by the way , this film was included in `` the 50 worst films '' book by harry medved .
while i , too , disliked the film , it was n't bad enough to merit inclusion in the book .
i think it was included mostly because it was such a huge box office failure and because it was released just a few years before the book appeared .
an excellent book -- just not one of the best selections to the `` hallowed hall '' of dreck .