***possible spoilers below*** what a long and mostly uninteresting movie !
who were these characters ?
why did n't i care about them ?
if i 'm going to watch a movie for two hours , i 'd like to care about somebody or something .
we know that salvatore dreamed of the riches to be found in the new world .
beyond that , though , we learned little about most of his family 's hopes , fears , etc.
, as they embarked on an adventure into the unknown.and why was lucy even in this movie ?
she said little ; we knew little about her or what she was doing ( was she forced to service men in exchange for being allowed to board the ship ? )
or what her plans were upon reaching new york .
to those who might suggest that she was needed to underscore the point that a single woman , however cultured , could not get into this country alone , i say that that fact is not enough justification to give her so much screen time .
that point could have been made in five minutes , with lucy as a momentary character.more questions : why was n't the twin brother at the boat to meet the family ?
we heard about the brother , and some closure on that point would have been helpful in giving the movie some cohesiveness .
also , how long was the journey from italy to new york ?
given the conditions on the ship , it makes a difference to the viewer if the voyage took five or 10 or 50 days .
( someone said something about seeing land a `` week '' at one point , but i think that was when they were already en route . )
i needed these types of details to better appreciate what they were going through.the only scene i really liked was when the boat , filled with passengers , left the dock .
if you choose to rent this movie , do so with remote in hand ; you may want the fast forward button handy.finally , may i suggest that , with the right voice-over providing helpful information about the times and the circumstances for immigrants -- particularly during the slow stretches of endless shots of the countryside , people walking , etc.
-- this movie might have made an interesting public tv documentary .