the monkees `` head '' is one of those peculiar phenomenons i 've noticed- that when something does n't make sense , people will try to read things into it and give it great deep meanings , which its creator never intended .
such is the case here.the movie is a stream-of-consciousness spectacle of the monkees floating in and out of various sketches , blackouts , set pieces , etc .
similar to the ones on their tv show .
but while the tv show was played for laughs , this does n't seem to be played for anything except a sort of deep , trippy , pseudo-intellectual state that this brand of psychedelia imposes .
all in all , it 's the monkees doing the same schtick , but now it 's `` consciousness-raising '' because the laugh track is removed .
there is not a stitch of humor or meaning to the whole thing ; it just drones on with colored lights.the music in `` head '' should prove to anyone , beyond the shadow of a doubt , that the monkees had not a scrap of songwriting ability .
the tunes are mostly garbage ; the only one that 's even listenable is `` porpoise song '' , which opens and closes the film .
but the thing is , that was a gerry goffin-carole king song , and , while it 's above-average for the monkees , it 's below-average by goffin and king standards .
it 's like hearing one of the old peter and gordon songs that paul mccartney wrote for them : you might think it 's a pretty good song , but then you find out who composed it , and you realize it 's a throwaway .
mike nesmith 's song is maybe passable , the rest is worthless .
davy jones has , i guess , what the filmmakers imagined to be `` the big number '' in the picture , since it 's the only song presented as show biz and not cut into a film montage or dream sequence , but it falls flat , too , just because the song is n't any good.i have to admit i always liked the monkees , so the movie is a real disappointment .
sure , they were cheesy , but they were so cheerful about it.they knew they were cheesy and they were cool with it .
but then they got ambitious .
in `` head '' , they actually joke about being a manufactured pop product , but the truth is , they wanted something more .
they wanted to be great musicians and taken seriously as artists .
maybe not like the beatles , but something approaching that .
`` head '' proves that they failed on all counts .
1* out of 4