writer & director robert downey , sr. , a pioneer of the underground film movement in the 1960s , satirized the new york madison avenue advertising world with his avant-garde comedy `` putney swope . ''
downey does n't confine his ridicule to advertising , but tackles black militant culture , the dynamics in hollywood 's portrayal of race , the elite white power structure , and character of corruption in any power struggle .
as audacious and ambitious as `` putney swope '' strives to be , it qualifies as a terrible film , amateurishly made on a shoe-string budget with a no-name cast and humor that lacks hilarity .
everything about this movie reeks with improvisation .
`` putney swope '' stirred up controversy during its initial release with its politically incorrect handling of race issues and consumer culture .
like most marx brothers movies , the plot is thin , providing an excuse for downey 's anecdotal gags , most of which are terrible.the chairman of a prestigious madison avenue ad agency dies during a board meeting .
before the body has been removed , the board holds a secret ballot vote to determine who will replace him .
each member understands that they are forbidden to vote for himself .
sheer accident occurs when everyone votes for the token black member , putney swope ( arnold johnson ) , since none thought anybody would cast a ballot for him .
swope pink slips all but one of the white executives , surrounds himself with black , pistol packing employees , and renames the firm `` truth and soul advertising . ''
swope decides to alter the face of american advertising .
he refuses to accept clients whose products are alcohol , tobacco , or war toys .
swope 's clients stage an exodus after he becomes the ceo , and grandstanding attracts a new line-up of clients that show up at his office lugging bags of money and prepared to suffer abuse from swope 's militant employees .
swope exploits his african-american staff , too , ruthlessly appropriating their ideas after he fires them and conjures up a number of offensive advertising campaigns , all of which are hailed as a 'new wave ' of marketing genius .
incredibly , swope 's conservatism proves successful but the agency becomes the target of government operatives who argue swope 's advertising tactics constitute `` a threat to the national security . ''
the high point of this black & white , 85-minute comedy are the television commercials shot in color .
unfortunately , downey does n't know when to cut off these ads that consistently start out cleverly but wear out their welcome .
the funniest part of `` putney swope '' involves our eponymous protagonist 's dealings with u.s. president mimeo in washington d.c. ( pepi hermine ) , a marihuana-toking midget with a kissinger-like teutonic adviser ( larry wolf ) spouting tasteless jokes while trying to convince swope to come up with an advertising campaign for his new car , the borman 6 .